1Belanger F :The impact of the digital divide on e-government use
Internet use has been growing steadily for the past decade. In a recent report, the Pew Internet & American Life Project survey found that 75% of American adults use the Internet. As more citizens turn to the Internet as a medium for communication and commerce, the importance of e-government is rising.
2 Backer: It is imperative that online government services appreciate the navigational needs of an ever-growing segment of their constituency.
3Markus Hr:Are there neural gender differences in online trust? an fMRI study on the perceived trustworthiness of ebay offers
Research provides increasing evidence that women and men differ in their decisions to trust. However, information systems research does not satisfactorily explain why these gender differences exist. One possible reason is that, surprisingly, theoretical concepts often do not address the most obvious factor that influences human behavior: biology. Given the essential role of biological factors-and specifically those of the brain-in decisions to trust, the biological influences should naturally include those related to gender. As trust considerations in economic decision making have become increasingly complex with the expansion of Internet use, understanding the related biological/brain functions and the involvement of gender provides a range of valuable insights.
To show empirically that online trust is associated with activity changes in certain brain areas, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). In a laboratory experiment, we captured the brain activity of 10 female and 10 male participants simultaneous to decisions on trustworthiness of eBay offers. We found that most of the brain areas that encode trustworthiness differ between women and men. Moreover, we found that women activated more brain areas than did men. These results confirm the empathizing- systemizing theory, which predicts gender differences in neural information processing modes.
In demonstrating that perceived trustworthiness of Internet offers is affected by neurobiology, our study has major implications for both IS research and management. We confirm the value of a category of research heretofore neglected in IS research and practice, and argue that future IS research investigating human behavior should consider the r 

4Craig Van Slyke :Gender differences in perceptions of web-based shopping
Women have yet to welcome Web-based shopping as readily as men. A primary factor for this state is how men and women view shopping. Understanding those differences will help vendors address this vital pool of consumers. 
5Vehovar V :Methodological Challenges of Digital Divide Measurements
The term “digital divide” has been used for almost a decade and typically relates to sociodemographic differences in the use of information and communication technology. However, the corresponding measurement is still relatively imprecise. Very often it is simply reduced to comparisons of Internet penetration rates. This article extends the measurements above the usual bivariate comparisons. Within this context, three essential approaches are presented and critically evaluated. First, loglinear modeling is used to address the interactions among the factors affecting the digital divide. Second, compound measures (i.e., the Digital Divide Index) that integrate a number of variables into a single indicator are discussed. Third, time-distance methodology is applied to analyze changes in the digital divide. The article argues that these approaches often yield entirely different conclusions compared to simple bivariate analysis. The examples are presented as a general warning against an oversimplified methodological approach to digital divide studies.
Keywords: digital divide, multivariate analysis, time-distance methodology

7Anterior Cingulate Cortex, Error Detection, and the Online Monitoring of Performance

8Zickuhr K: Digital differences While increased internet adoption and the rise of mobile connectivity have reduced many gaps in technology access over the past decade, for some groups digital disparities still rema
he ways in which people connect to the internet are also much more varied today than they were in 2000. As a result, internet access is no longer synonymous with going online with a desktop computer:  Currently, 88% of American adults have a cell phone, 57% have a laptop, 19% own an e-book reader, and 19% have a tablet computer; about six in ten adults (63%) go online wirelessly with one of those devices. Gadget ownership is generally correlated with age, education, and household income, although some devices—notably e-book readers and tablets—are as popular or even more popular with adults in their thirties and forties than young adults ages 18-29.  The rise of mobile is changing the story. Groups that have traditionally been on the other side of the digital divide in basic internet access are using wireless connections to go online. Among smartphone owners, young adults, minorities, those with no college experience, and those with lower household income levels are more likely than other groups to say that their phone is their main source of internet access.
9Broadband Adoption| Measuring Digital Citizenship: Mobile Access and Broadband
Karen Mossberger, Caroline J. Tolbert, Allison Hamilton
Abstract
How should we measure broadband adoption by individuals and communities, given different modes of access, including home broadband, smartphone use, and public access? We measure online activities and indicators of skill to understand opportunities for digital citizenship, or participation in society online. Based on a 2011 survey in Chicago, we find more mobile phone adoption among Blacks than among non-Hispanic Whites, and greater likelihood of Internet use for job searches among residents who rely primarily on smartphones to go online than among home broadband adopters. Yet our analysis also shows that broadband at home remains critically important for digital citizenship, and that the growth in mobile phone use has not erased inequalities in participation online and seems unlikely to do so. Moreover, smartphones are not bridging the gap in disadvantaged communities. Multilevel statistical models show inequality in both Internet access and economic and political activities across geographic areas, or communities. Technology disparities that are patterned by place have implications for opportunity and equity at the neighborhood level.
10.Wolin Ld:Web advertising: gender differences in beliefs, attitudes and behaviour

Previous research suggests males and females exhibit different beliefs about and attitudes toward traditional media advertising along with different advertising stimulated consumer behaviors. However, little is known about gender differences in consumer beliefs about Web advertising versus other media, attitude toward Web advertising, or Web advertising associated consumer behavior. Survey results indicate males and females differ significantly on several dimensions with males exhibiting more positive beliefs about Web advertising and more positive attitudes toward Web advertising than females. Additionally, males are more likely than females to purchase from the Web and surf the Web for functional and entertainment reasons, whereas females are more likely to surf the Web for shopping reasons.
Keywords:
Advertising, Gender, Internet, Perception, Shopping, User studies
11.Harwood P. G.:Virtual diatance and Americ’s sense of changing  community
E‐government 
12.El Leopoldo Abad-Alcalá, : ectronic government and online tasks: Towards the autonomy and empowerment of senior citizens
Carmen Llorente-Barroso, María Sánchez-Valle, Mónica Viñarás-Abad, Marilé Pretel-Jiménez

Abstract: The use of the Internet by the senior citizens in order to manage operations with the government and companies requires further study. The objective of this work is to take a close look at the reasons why older people make limited use of e-administration and online procedures. Using a qualitative methodology, based on four focus groups, we analyze the motivations and problems they find when using such procedures. The results indicate acceptance of electronic resources for simple and routine tasks due to the speed and convenience they offer, which simultaneously promotes the independence and empowerment of older people. However, there is a series of factors which have a negative effect on their use, and these must be dealt with in order to favor greater digital inclusion of this age demographic.
Keywords: E-government; E-administration; Senior citizens; Empowerment; Internet; Online tasks; Online procedures; Digital inclusion; Active aging; Elderly; Older people.

13Sanders K :Do we trust and are we empowered by “Dr. Google”? Older Spaniards’ uses and views of digital healthcare communication
 Focus group participants who look for information online were found to apply appropriate criteria to differentiate its reliability in general terms.
None of the participants mentioned or seemed to know whether there were official criteria to give guarantees of the reliability of the information. Nor were they aware of the possibility that some healthcare institutions may use their websites to “sell” certain therapies or drugs.
Online healthcare information is giving older people the chance to take more responsibility for their own health and, when well founded and well used, it can act as part of a safety net that complements the work of healthcare professionals.
Being able to compare and contrast the information received from one's physician is in itself an empowering development.
Seniors’ use of online health information shows a nuanced understanding of its uses, seeing its value but also registering its potential for fostering “cyberchondriasm.”
Abstract
By 2050, 34.5 % of Spaniards will be over the age of 65, making Spain's population the third oldest in the world. Ageing populations present numerous challenges and opportunities and these are particularly apparent in the area of healthcare and health communication. Longer life expectancy pushes greater demand for information regarding health and healthcare institutions are exploring ways of meeting these demands in an effective and efficient manner. This study listens to the voices of older people themselves, exploring seniors’ use of digital communication to find information related to health and healthy living. Part of a wider project examining the use of digital health communication for active aging by Spanish health institutions, this research used focus groups to explore the extent to which older people trust and feel empowered by digital media in finding out about health issues. It found that online healthcare information is giving older people the chance to take more responsibility for their own health and, when well founded and well used, it can act as part of a safety net that complements the work of healthcare professionals. Being able to compare and contrast the information received from one's physician is in itself an empowering development.
Keywords :health,  The elderly, Trust ,Empowerment
Author links open the author workspace.M.ViñarasOpens the author workspace. Author links open the author workspace.C.Llorente
14. Awad Nf:Establishing Trust in Electronic Commerce Through Online Word of Mouth: An Examination Across Genders
Neveen F. Awad & Arik Ragowsky

Abstract
This paper focuses on the cultural effect of gender on the relationship of online word of mouth and trust in e-commerce. To encourage online commerce, many online retailers use online word-of-mouth systems, where consumers can rate products offered for sale. To date, how such ratings affect trust and adoption of e-ommerce across genders has been relatively unexplored. We assess whether the effect of online trust on intention to shop online is moderated by gender. Our results show that the effect of trust on intention to shop online is stronger for women than for men. In addition, we find that men value their ability to post content online, whereas women value the responsive participation of other consumers to the content they have posted. Finally, we find that online word-of-mouth quality affects online trust differently across genders.
Keywords: consumer-generated content, electronic commerce, gender, online trust, online word of mouth, sociolinguistic theory
Trauth Eileen M:Environmental influences on gender in the IT workforce

15Authors:
Eileen M. Trauth

In an effort to better understand the under- representation of women within the IT profession, one promising line of investigation is the influence of factors in the socio-cultural environment. In order to examine this topic, we draw on data from a multi-year field study of women IT professionals in three regions of the U.S.: Massachusetts, North Carolina and Pennsylvania. We employ Trauth's (2000) conceptual framework of environmental influences on the development of a region's information economy to consider economic and cultural influences on women's recruitment and retention in the IT field. The findings reveal a range of influences and a wide variety of responses to them. The contribution of this research to theoretical understanding is twofold. First, we demonstrate that socio-cultural factors serve as both barriers to and facilitators of women's recruitment and retention in the IT profession. This suggests the need for investigations of not just women themselves, but also of the societal environments within which they grow up, live and work. Second, we demonstrate that there is not one unilateral set of environment factors that can explain women's under-representation. Rather, a combination of differing regional influences and individual responses to them is in evidence. This finding of variability both among environmental influences and among women's responses to them provides empirical support for ongoing theory development efforts regarding the role of individual differences in explaining women's under-representation in IT
