1Kassen M
A Promising Phenomenon of Open Data: A Case Study of the Chicago Open Data Project
This article presents a case study of the open data project in the Chicago area. The main purpose of the research is to explore empowering potential of an open data phenomenon at the local level as a platform useful for promotion of civic engagement projects and provide a framework for future research and hypothesis testing. Today the main challenge in realization of any e-government projects is a traditional top–down administrative mechanism of their realization itself practically without any input from members of the civil society. In this respect, the author of the article argues that the open data concept realized at the local level may provide a real platform for promotion of proactive civic engagement. By harnessing collective wisdom of the local communities, their knowledge and visions of the local challenges, governments could react and meet citizens' needs in a more productive and cost-efficient manner. Open data-driven projects that focused on visualization of environmental issues, mapping of utility management, evaluating of political lobbying, social benefits, closing digital divide, etc. are only some examples of such perspectives. These projects are perhaps harbingers of a new political reality where interactions among citizens at the local level will play a more important role than communication between civil society and government due to the empowering potential of the open data concept. 
2. Meijer AjOpen government: connecting vision and voice 
Abstract
The term open government is often used to describe initiatives of putting government information on the Internet. This conceptualization is too restricted since open government is not only about openness in informational terms (vision) but also about openness in interactive terms (voice). On the basis of an analysis of 103 articles, this article provides insight into the concepts of openness, transparency and participation, their interactions, and the manner in which they have been discussed in the literature. This analysis shows the differences and similarities between economic, political science and legal perspectives on open government and argues that a multidisciplinary approach needs to be taken. The authors conclude that open government is much too important to leave it to the ‘techies’: scientists and practitioners with backgrounds in law, economics, political science and public administration should also get involved to build sound connections between vision and voice that facilitate active citizenship. This article provides guidelines for the realization of open government: (1) design open government for synergistic or complementary relationships between transparency and participation, (2) design open government for a diverse population, (3) design open government for direct and indirect effects, (4) design open government acknowledging a variety in desirables and (5) design for continuous learning about effects and side-effects. The authors emphasize that a diversified approach to the design of open government will be more fruitful in the long run than merely understanding it in terms of making information publicly available.
3Brancheau Jc: The Adoption of Spreadsheet Software: Testing Innovation Diffusion Theory in the Context of End-User Computing 
Abstract
Judging by the wealth of problems reported in the literature, information systems (IS) and general managers are not sure how to manage the introduction of new information technology. One step toward providing sound management guidelines is to improve understanding of the social forces which affect the introduction and diffusion process within organizations. This research takes a step toward that goal by examining the validity of innovation diffusion theory within the context of end-user computing. The research involved a field study and historical analysis of the diffusion of spreadsheet software in organizations. To assist in controlling exogenous factors, only finance and accounting departments were studied. Over 500 professionals in 24 business units from 18 large businesses in manufacturing and services participated in the research. Findings supported hypotheses that earlier adopters of spreadsheet software were younger, more highly educated, more attuned to mass media, more involved in interpersonal communication, and more likely to be opinion leaders. Also supported was the hypothesized sigmoidal distribution of adoption over time. Application of the theory was not supported in all areas, however, suggesting that information technology diffusion is different from other diffusion phenomena. Contrary to theory, interpersonal channels of communication were dominant in all phases of adoption decision making. And contrary to their hypothesized role as change agent, IS departments played a minor role in the diffusion process. This was consistent with the observed user-led nature of the phenomenon. Implications for research and practice are discussed.
4Clarke EManaging the transformation to e-government: An Australian perspective
Abstract
Australia is recognized as a leading country in the move to an information economy, and the Australian government has played a pivotal role in this transformation. This commentary outlines some of the key issues confronting Australia as it moves towards its policy goal of achieving e-government. Although governments differ in the pace and nature of reforms required to bring about the transformation to e-government, many of the underlying issues are the same for most governments.  
5.Nam T: Citizens’ attitudes toward Open Government and Government 2.0 
Abstract This empirical study sees Open Government and Government 2.0 as a new ends and means of e-government in the United States. The analysis of the data from the Pew Research Center’s national survey (2009 Government Online) highlights what influences American citizens’ attitudes toward Open Government and Government 2.0. This article presents four main findings. First, while the use of existing e-government services does not significantly influence attitudes toward Open Government, recent use of Government 2.0 does contribute to positive attitudes toward Government 2.0. Second, those who value transactions with e-government have a positive attitude regarding Open Government and Government 2.0. Third, general trust in government leads to a positive attitude toward the new ends and means of e-government. Finally, frequent Web use and broadband adoption do not affect citizens’ attitudes concerning the new modes of e-government. The study reveals that citizens’ attitudes toward government workings do not change much with the introduction of new goals and tools of e-government. 

A government may gain considerable popular support from the public by introducing to citizens new objectives and channels for the existing e-government. However, government practitioners should know that offering new directives and technological tools does not necessarily guarantee a positive response from citizens. When new goals and vehicles of e-government reach citizens, a set of conventional determinants, such as perceived value of government services and general trust in government, shapes the collective attitude toward new modes of e-government. Practitioners need to assess leverage by those fundamental factors.
6Whitson Tl
Best practices in electronic government: Comprehensive electronic information dissemination for science and technology.
7Ho AtkInformation Technology Planning and the Y2K Problem in Local Governments Abstract
This article examines local responses to the Year 2000 (Y2K) problem in Iowa to analyze how local governments plan for information technology (IT) operations. Many local governments lacked concrete plans and failed to think strategically about the Y2K problem at the beginning of 1999. A logistic analysis shows that the decision to form a concrete Y2K strategy depended on management attitudes and the technological sensitivity of local decision makers rather than on resource constraints or system characteristics. However, insufficient resources, not management attitudes and system characteristics, were the key determinant of the eventual outcomes of planning. This study concludes that local governments should think more strategically in IT planning and that senior management should take a more active role in the planning process. Local governments, especially counties, may need state assistance to improve IT planning for the information revolution in the new millennium.
8.Deakins E
E‐government in New Zealand: the local authority perspective
Abstract:
In New Zealand (NZ) there are plans afoot to create an e‐government that will automate government‐to‐government and government‐to‐citizen interactions and allow anyone, anywhere to go online any time to obtain information, to complete transactions, and to communicate with their elected representatives, cheaply, quickly, and efficiently. A total of 16 key issues, which various authors argue are critical to the success of USA e‐government initiatives, are described and evaluated in light of the NZ e‐government environment. The significance afforded to these issues by NZ local authority e‐government policymakers when they implement their own e‐government initiatives suggests that eight of the issues are considered significant, four are not considered significant, and four remain inconclusive at this time. Of the key issues, six are not well understood. It is also concluded that NZ local authorities are at an early evolutionary stage of e‐government development.
Keywords: 
Central government, Internet, New Zealand

9Wymer S. A.
Factors Influencing e‐commerce Adoption and Use by Small and Medium Businesses 
The literature provides an extensive list of incentives and barriers to adoption and use of e-business and e-commerce information technology (EEIT) by small and medium businesses (SMEs). The objective of this current research was to consolidate these factors and determine their level of influence, either positively or negatively from the adopter's perspective, on the adoption decision. A set of 26 factors, used as variables in various adoption models from the literature, were presented in a neutral manner, without pre-classifying them as barriers or incentives, through a survey sent to SMEs. Respondents were asked to rate the effect of these factors on their EEIT adoption decisions. In addition to examining all respondents, the analysis compares perceived differences among factors for SMEs that have adopted a business website, those that intend to adopt and those that will not adopt. Sixteen of the factors were found significant, ten as incentives and six as barriers. The only consistent factor across all groups was cost – perceived as a barrier. The study concluded that factors are perceived differently by adopters, intended adopters and those not intending to adopt. These results should serve as a basis for more accurate use of these factors in adoption models
10E-government around the world: Lessons, challenges, and future directions
PT Jaeger, KM Thompson - Government information quarterly, 2003
As demonstrated by the articles in this symposium, e-government can create significant benefits for citizens, businesses, and governments around the world.“Although still in its adolescence, the core transformative capacities of the Internet include its potential for radically shrinking communications and information costs, maximizing speed, broadening reach, and eradicating distance.” 1 E-government is a key method for achieving many of ..
11Farag S
E‐Shopping and its Relationship with In‐store Shopping: Empirical Evidence from the Netherlands and the USA
Abstract
Despite considerable examination of the impact of telecommunications on travel, little empirical evidence sheds light on the impact of e‐shopping on travel—a recent and increasingly popular form of telecommunications. This paper analyses determinants of online buying and their relationship with in‐store shopping, using empirical data obtained from Minneapolis, USA, and Utrecht, the Netherlands. Based on chi‐square tests and logistic and ordinary least‐squares regressions, the results indicate that online buying is affected by sociodemographics and spatial characteristics of people, their Internet experience, and their attitudes towards in‐store shopping. US respondents who prefer to see products in person are less likely to buy online. Dutch respondents are more likely to buy online as travel times to shops are shorter. At first sight, this counterintuitive result might be related to an urban, innovative lifestyle that supports e‐shopping. A more detailed analysis of Dutch online buyers reveals that they make more shopping trips than non‐online buyers and have a shorter shopping duration. The results indicate that the relationship between online buying and in‐store shopping is not one of substitution but of complementarity.
On the Frontiers of Electronic Governance: A Report on the United States and Canada
12Sandford Borinsbook
13Electronic Governance: Implications for Citizens, Politicians and Public Servants
Ignace Snellenbook no abstract

 14Toward an integrative assessment of open government: Proposing conceptual lenses and practical components
Rodrigo Sandoval-Almazan & J. Ramon Gil-Garcia
Open government, as a concept, should be understood through a holistic perspective. It is not enough to provide access to government information without redesigning processes and changing regulations. However, little work has been done to measure the components of open government and provide guidance for implementation. We argue that one way to start filling this gap is through the development of models that integrate concepts, theories, and practical perspectives. However, very few of the existing models attempt to explain the functions and characteristics of open government, which could then provide guidance for its development. This article is based on two main sources in order to propose an integrative open government assessment model: (1) a literature review of previous assessment models and theoretical perspectives to build a richer integrative model that goes beyond websites and (2) the results from a longitudinal research study performed from 2006 to 2012 using a multicomponent model to measure open government websites from a practitioners’ perspective. As a result, this article identifies knowledge gaps and proposes a new evaluation approach to open government based on two sets of components: one from practice and the other one from theory. This model contributes to existing knowledge and helps government organizations to better understand and implement open government initiatives.
KEYWORDS: Assessment models, collaboration and co-production, e-government, open data, open government, transparency
15.Open government: connecting vision and voice
Albert J. Meijer, Deirdre Curtin, Maarten Hillebrandt
Abstract
The term open government is often used to describe initiatives of putting government information on the Internet. This conceptualization is too restricted since open government is not only about openness in informational terms (vision) but also about openness in interactive terms (voice). On the basis of an analysis of 103 articles, this article provides insight into the concepts of openness, transparency and participation, their interactions, and the manner in which they have been discussed in the literature. This analysis shows the differences and similarities between economic, political science and legal perspectives on open government and argues that a multidisciplinary approach needs to be taken. The authors conclude that open government is much too important to leave it to the ‘techies’: scientists and practitioners with backgrounds in law, economics, political science and public administration should also get involved to build sound connections between vision and voice that facilitate active citizenship.
 This article provides guidelines for the realization of open government: (1) design open government for synergistic or complementary relationships between transparency and participation, (2) design open government for a diverse population, (3) design open government for direct and indirect effects, (4) design open government acknowledging a variety in desirables and (5) design for continuous learning about effects and side-effects. The authors emphasize that a diversified approach to the design of open government will be more fruitful in the long run than merely understanding it in terms of making information publicly available.

16.Sipior J. C.: Bridging the digital divide for e-government inclusion : A united states case study
17. E‐Shopping and its Relationship with In‐store Shopping: Empirical Evidence from the Netherlands and the USA
Sendy Farag , Kevin J. Krizek & Martin Dijst
Abstract
Despite considerable examination of the impact of telecommunications on travel, little empirical evidence sheds light on the impact of e‐shopping on travel—a recent and increasingly popular form of telecommunications. This paper analyses determinants of online buying and their relationship with in‐store shopping, using empirical data obtained from Minneapolis, USA, and Utrecht, the Netherlands. Based on chi‐square tests and logistic and ordinary least‐squares regressions, the results indicate that online buying is affected by sociodemographics and spatial characteristics of people, their Internet experience, and their attitudes towards in‐store shopping. US respondents who prefer to see products in person are less likely to buy online. Dutch respondents are more likely to buy online as travel times to shops are shorter. At first sight, this counterintuitive result might be related to an urban, innovative lifestyle that supports e‐shopping. A more detailed analysis of Dutch online buyers reveals that they make more shopping trips than non‐online buyers and have a shorter shopping duration. The results indicate that the relationship between online buying and in‐store shopping is not one of substitution but of complementarity.
18. Factors Influencing e‐commerce Adoption and Use by Small and Medium Businesses
Scott A. Wymer & Elizabeth A. Regan
Abstract
The literature provides an extensive list of incentives and barriers to adoption and use of e‐business and e‐commerce information technology (EEIT) by small and medium businesses (SMEs). The objective of this current research was to consolidate these factors and determine their level of influence, either positively or negatively from the adopter's perspective, on the adoption decision. A set of 26 factors, used as variables in various adoption models from the literature, were presented in a neutral manner, without pre‐classifying them as barriers or incentives, through a survey sent to SMEs. Respondents were asked to rate the effect of these factors on their EEIT adoption decisions. In addition to examining all respondents, the analysis compares perceived differences among factors for SMEs that have adopted a business website, those that intend to adopt and those that will not adopt. Sixteen of the factors were found significant, ten as incentives and six as barriers. The only consistent factor across all groups was cost – perceived as a barrier. The study concluded that factors are perceived differently by adopters, intended adopters and those not intending to adopt. These results should serve as a basis for more accurate use of these factors in adoption models.
Keywords: e‐commerce, barriers, small business, adoption, e‐business

19. Eric DeakinsE‐government in New Zealand: the local authority perspective

In New Zealand (NZ) there are plans afoot to create an e‐government that will automate government‐to‐government and government‐to‐citizen interactions and allow anyone, anywhere to go online any time to obtain information, to complete transactions, and to communicate with their elected representatives, cheaply, quickly, and efficiently. A total of 16 key issues, which various authors argue are critical to the success of USA e‐government initiatives, are described and evaluated in light of the NZ e‐government environment. The significance afforded to these issues by NZ local authority e‐government policymakers when they implement their own e‐government initiatives suggests that eight of the issues are considered significant, four are not considered significant, and four remain inconclusive at this time. Of the key issues, six are not well understood. It is also concluded that NZ local authorities are at an early evolutionary stage of e‐government development.
Keywords:
Central government, Internet, New Zealand
Doi Doi 10.1108/09604520310506504
20.E‐government: the realities of using IT to transform the public sector
