Cluster6
6.1 Chen Yn
E-Government Strategies in Developed and Developing Countries: An Implementation Framework and Case Study
Abstract
Given the fact that more and more governments invest heavily in e-government design and implementation, e-government has become an evolving and important research area in the IS field. Most, if not all, currently published e-government strategies are based on successful experiences from developed countries, which may not be directly applicable to developing countries. Based on a literature review, this study summarizes differences between developed/developing countries. It identifies key factors for a successful e-government implementation and proposes an implementation framework. As a demonstration, we follow the guidance of the proposed framework in conducting a case study to analyze the implementation strategies of e-government in developed and developing countries.
6.2 Siau K
Using Social Development Lenses to Understand E-Government Development
Abstract
As governments at different levels and all around the world are increasingly using the Web to enhance and improve their services, understanding e-government development and exploring factors that affect e-government development have become important research topics. The purpose of this research is to investigate factors explaining e-government development in terms of social development lenses. Based on growth and regional development theories, the paper hypothesizes that income level, development status, and region are three factors that differentiate e-government development in countries. Group comparison tests are conducted using secondary data from the United Nations and the United Nations Development Programme. The results support the hypotheses that significant differences in e-government development exist between countries with respect to the three categorical variables mentioned above. In addition, the paper applies planned post-hoc tests to further investigate the differences. The results of this research are valuable to e-government scholars and practitioners. As the research involves data from more than a hundred countries, the research contributes to understanding e-government development factors on a global scale.
6.3 King Jl
Institutional Factors in Information Technology Innovation 

Abstract
Innovation in information technology is well established in developed nations; newly industrializing and developing nations have been creating governmental interventions to accelerate IT innovation within their borders. The lack of coherent policy advice for creating government policy for IT innovation signals a shortfall in research understanding of the role of government institutions, and institutions more broadly, in IT innovation. This paper makes three points. First, long-established intellectual perspectives on innovation from neoclassical economics and organization theory are inadequate to explain the dynamics of actual innovative change in the IT domain. A broader view adopted from economic history and the new institutionalism in sociology provides a stronger base for understanding the role of institutions in IT innovation. Second, institutional intervention in IT innovation can be constructed at the intersection of the influence and regulatory powers of institutions and the ideologies of supply-push and demand-pull models of innovation. Examples of such analysis are provided. Third, institutional policy formation regarding IT innovation is facilitated by an understanding of the multifaceted role of institutions in the innovative process, and on the contingencies governing any given institution/innovation mix.
Keywords: institutions ; information technology ; innovation 

6.4 Mooney Cz
Legislative Morality in the American States: The Case of Pre-Roe Abortion Regulation Reform 
Abstract
Do policies that regulate morality and/or evoke strong moral reactions have significantly different patterns of adoption in the states than those policies whose impacts are primarily economic? We use social learning theory and demand, resource, and constraint analysis to explore this question. Contrary to Lowi's thesis that policy determines politics, there should be many similarities in the politics of these very dissimilar types of policy. An evaluation of three dimensions of abortion regulation reform from 1966 to 1972 (diffusion, reinvention, and determination) is used to test this hypothesis. Event history, hazard rate, and correlation analyses are applied to aggregate state data. A Guttman scale of abortion regulation permissiveness is developed. Our central conclusions are that even distinct policies (morality versus economically based policies) share similar politics, and the three dimensions of the adoption process can be influenced in different ways by the type of policy under consideration.
6.5 Krishnan S
Moderating effects of governance on information infrastructure and e-government development
Abstract
Drawing from the resource complementarity perspective of the resource-based view of a firm, this study examines the complementary role of governance dimensions—namely, voice and accountability, political stability, government effectiveness, regulatory quality, rule of law, and control of corruption—on the relationship between information infrastructure in a country and its e-government development. Based on publicly available archival data from 178 countries, our results provide support for the hypothesized model. Specifically, whereas political stability, government effectiveness, and rule of law moderated the relationship of information infrastructure with e-government development in a positive direction, voice and accountability and control of corruption moderated the relationship negatively. Further, the relationship between information infrastructure and e-government development was not contingent on regulatory quality. Our findings contribute to the theoretical discourse on e-government development by highlighting the complementary role of governance and provide suggestions for practice in managing e-government development by enhancing governance, thereby leveraging the effect of information infrastructure on e-government development.
6.6 Jessop B
The rise of governance and the risks of failure: the case of economic development
6.7 Dewan S
Information Technology and Productivity: Evidence from Country-Level Data 
Abstract
This paper studies a key driver of the demand for the products and services of the global IT industry—returns from IT investments. We estimate an intercountry production function relating IT and non-IT inputs to GDP output, on panel data from 36 countries over the 1985–1993 period. We find significant differences between developed and developing countries with respect to their structure of returns from capital investments. For the developed countries in the sample, returns from IT capital investments are estimated to be positive and significant, while returns from non-IT capital investments are not commensurate with relative factor shares. The situation is reversed for the developing countries subsample, where returns from non-IT capital are quite substantial, but those from IT capital investments are not statistically significant. We estimate output growth contributions of IT and non-IT capital and discuss the contrasting policy implications for capital investment by developed and developing economies.
Keywords: information technology ; international ; productivity paradox ; capital investment ; information technology investment 
 eParticipation research: Systematizing the field
It has been widely acknowledged recently that the research field of eParticipation suffers from lack of comprehensive theoretical contributions, insufficient depth, and inconsistency in definitions of central concepts. Due to the interdisciplinary nature of the field researchers find it difficult to consolidate their theoretical groundwork and further theory building in the eParticipation domain. This paper reports a literature study of conceptual publications on the subject of eParticipation/eDemocracy in the time frame of 2007–2009. Its objectives are to track recent theoretical development in the field, to reveal constraints and limitations to researching the area, and to offer some suggestions for further inquiry. The results show that most theories currently used in conceptual eParticipation research originate from the fields of Political Science and Media and Communication Studies. But together with this, contemporary eParticipation authors contribute to strengthening the field with some “in-house” models and frameworks as well. Central problems with eParticipation research concern immaturity of the field, topical gaps, and biased assumptions. The review shows that the themes of recent publications can be grouped into three major categories: stakeholders, environment, and applications and tools. It also finds some interconnections between these categories; however, in general the coupling technology–stakeholders–(participatory) environments is weak.
Highlights
► The study offers a thematic map of research and topical suggestions for the future. ► Themes in recent research concern stakeholders, environment, applications and tools. ► Theories from political science and media studies dominate in eParticipation research. ► eParticipation research is limited by immaturity, topical gaps, and biased assumptions.
Keywords
eParticipation , eDemocracy, eGovernment ,Research ,Literature review

6.8 BehrouzZarei:Guidelines for government-to-government initiative architecture in developing countries
. Abstract
The term electronic government (e-government) mainly refers to the information and communications technology (ICT) usage to modify structures and procedures of government agencies. Acknowledging the necessity of utilizing the new electronic, information, and communication technologies, the movement toward implementation of e-government in Iran has recently received the attention of authorities and policy makers. Public administrations have been very much concerned about the architecture of e-government, especially because of the boost of e-government that has taken place in recent years. The paper seeks to provide a set of heuristic principles affecting e-government overall architecture with respect to Iranian government-to-government (G2G) context requirements, which might be applicable for other developing countries with some customization. It is worth mentioning that the grounded action research method was applied to develop a systematic theory from data that contains both inductive and deductive thinking.
Keywords:E-government, G2G, Architecture, System of systems (SOS) ,E-government implementation, Grounded action research
Heuristic principle
6.9 A secure e-Government platform architecture for small to medium sized public organizations☆
 AlexandrosKaliontzoglou
Abstract
Small to medium sized public organizations (SMPOs) share some of their e-Government requirements with their larger counterparts, such as the pending needs for interoperability, security and user friendliness. Additionally, they have some specific needs that are either unique in their context or more demanding due to their characteristics. These are cost and resources considerations, enhanced accessibility and greater scalability due to the larger number of citizens and businesses served and automated processing because of the restricted number of trained personnel. This paper first proposes an architecture for a secure e-Government platform based on Web Services, which addresses the above requirements. Secondly, a specific service is built upon the proposed platform, in which a municipality generates and securely delivers a digital birth certificate to a citizen or another municipality.
Keywords, e-Government ,Web services, Web services security, XML, Interoperability, PKI, Birth certificate

6.10C.Vassilakisa. Numbers and letters correspond to the affiliation list. Click to expose these in author workspaceOpens the author workspaceOpens the author workspace. Author links open the author workspace.G.Lepourasa. Numbers and letters correspond to the affiliation list. Click to expose these in author workspace. Author links open the author workspace.C.Halatsisb. Numbers and letters correspond to the affiliation list. Click to expose these in author workspaceOpens the author workspace
a
Department of Compute
A knowledge-based approach for developing multi-channel e-government services
 
Abstract
Having realised the benefits resulting from delivering on-line public services in the context of electronic government, administrations strive to extend the spectrum of services offered to citizens and enterprises, as well as to engage multiple communication channels in service delivery, in order to increase the target audience and, consequently, the service effectiveness. Insofar, however, only the web channel has been sufficiently used for service delivery, whereas other channels have not been adequately exploited. One of the main reasons of this lag is the cost incurred for the development and maintenance of multiple versions of an electronic service, each version targeted to a different platform. In this paper, we present an approach and the associated tools for developing and maintaining electronic services that allows the automated production of different versions of the electronic service, each targeted to a specific platform.
Keywords e-Government, Electronic services ,Multi-channel service delivery ,Forms design for eServices
6.11 The rise of governance and the risks of failure: the case of economic development
AuthorsBob Jessop Partnership,meta-government,heterarchey,market
 6.12Janiesch, Christian, Korthaus, Axel, & Rosemann, Michael (2009) Conceptualisation and facilitation of SOA governance. In Pro
As organisations strive to improve their capabilities in the areas of Service Management and Service-oriented Architectures (SOA), SOA Governance is becoming an increasingly important success factor. However, the concept of SOA Governance is complex and not well-understood, and the adoption of an adequate SOA Governance approach in an organisation can be difficult. Tools that support SOA Governance mostly have a technical bias and rarely address organisational aspects. In this paper, we contribute to the field by specifying a conceptual meta model for SOA Governance that integrates the structure of major IT and SOA Governance frameworks into one consolidated view. By presenting this conceptualisation and a corresponding prototypical implementation of a tool that supports SOA Governance maturity assessment, reference framework exploration and company-specific tailoring of SOA Governance, we provide insights into the first step of a Design Science research project, i.e. the development of an important IT artefact. 
6.13 Georg Aichholzer :Organizational Challenges to the Development of Electronic Government 
 Abstract This puper discusses mujor orgunizutionul chullenges fuced by initiutives to implement e-government. Firstly. guiding principles und problems qf restructuring udminiswutive .functions und processes ure pointed out. Secondly, requirements qf und burriers to coordinution und cooperation within public udministrution ure cfiscussed with U view on specific nutionul strutegies. As U third chullenge the need to orgunize monitoring qf per- ,formunce in terms qf e-government is examined.
6.14 Moderating effects of governance on information infrastructure and e-government development
Authors Satish Krishnan, Thompson S.H. Teo
Abstract
Drawing from the resource complementarity perspective of the resource-based view of a firm, this study examines the complementary role of governance dimensions—namely, voice and accountability, political stability, government effectiveness, regulatory quality, rule of law, and control of corruption—on the relationship between information infrastructure in a country and its e-government development. Based on publicly available archival data from 178 countries, our results provide support for the hypothesized model. Specifically, whereas political stability, government effectiveness, and rule of law moderated the relationship of information infrastructure with e-government development in a positive direction, voice and accountability and control of corruption moderated the relationship negatively. Further, the relationship between information infrastructure and e-government development was not contingent on regulatory quality. Our findings contribute to the theoretical discourse on e-government development by highlighting the complementary role of governance and provide suggestions for practice in managing e-government development by enhancing governance, thereby leveraging the effect of information infrastructure on e-government development.
6.15 SatishKrishnana. Numbers and letters correspond to the affiliation list. Click to expose these in author workspace
 Examining the relationships among e-government maturity, corruption, economic prosperity and environmental degradation: A cross-country analysis
. Author links open the author workspace.SatishKrishnana. Numbers and letters correspond to the affiliation list. Click to expose these in author workspaceOpens the author workspaceOpens the author workspace. Author links open the author workspace.Thompson S.H.Teob. Numbers and letters correspond to the affiliation list. Click to expose these in author workspaceOpens the author workspace. Author links open the author workspace.Vivien K.G.Limc. Numbers and letters correspond to the affiliation list. Click to expose these in author workspaceOpens the author workspace
a
Department of Information Systems, School of Computing, Na
16.Abstract
There is growing interest in the role and contribution of e-government to the levels of corruption, economic prosperity and environmental degradation of nation states. In this paper, we use publicly available archival data to explore the relationships among them. Results substantiate a significant relationship between (1) e-government maturity and corruption; and (2) e-government maturity, economic prosperity and environmental degradation through the mediating effects of corruption. The findings suggest that while e-government maturity did not contribute to economic prosperity and environmental degradation, its value could be realized indirectly via its impacts on corruption. Our findings contribute to the theoretical discourse on e-government impact by identifying the role of e-government in a country and provide indications to practice on enhancing its economic prosperity and lowering its environmental degradation by managing the levels of e-government maturity and corruption.
Keywords: E-government maturity, Corruption, Economic prosperity ,Environmental degradation
Archival data
17.The Architecture of Control: a Chinese Strategy for e-Governance
RANDOLPH KLUVER
Abstract
The rapid development of the Peoples' Republic of China has put increasing strains on an overwhelmed administrative and bureaucratic structure that was already hobbled by persistent inefficiency and corruption. In addition to anti-corruption and professionalization campaigns, the government has devised a system of e-governance with the goal of adding stability and order to a chaotic governing process. This includes re-establishing the control of the governing authorities, including improving the quality of surveillance and data gathering and hence policy-making; the elimination of corruption; and ultimately, the re-legitimation of the Communist Party of China. This paper discusses the critical administrative and political problems facing the government, demonstrates ways in which e-government has been designed to meet these, and discusses the problems presented by a reliance on e-government in a developing country.
18 Luiz AntonioJoia Developing Government-to-Government enterprises in Brazil: a heuristic model drawn from multiple case studies
 . Abstract
Recently, various governments have seized the moment provided by information and communication technology as the ideal opportunity to rethink and reformulate their administrative praxis. This restructuring concentrates not only on the internal aspects involved, but also on those related to the relationship between government and other organizations, social groups, and/or citizens. The digitally-enabled collaboration and cooperation perspective among different government agencies—commonly referred to by the acronym Government-to-Government (G2G)–is the main focus of this study. Consequently, this work seeks to analyze the key factors for successful implementation of G2G projects, as well as to establish the main obstacles to the deployment of such enterprises and the associated causes and possible solutions thereto, so as to avoid potential drawbacks and overcome all hurdles. In order to achieve this, multiple case study explanatory methodology based on two recent real-life cases was adopted, namely the digital link between the Brazilian Central Bank and the Federal Senate, and another digital link between the Brazilian Central Bank and the Brazilian Justice Department. From these case studies, a heuristic model is proposed for successful implementation of G2G endeavors. Finally, some conclusions are drawn and further research is presented in order to assist policy makers and public administrators in dealing with this new field of knowledge adequately.
Keywords ,E-Government, Government-to-Government, Internet ,Public administration

19 E-Government, E-Business, and National Economic Performance Shirish C. Srivastav Recent years have witnessed rapid developments in e-government as well as e-business within nations across the world. Although both e-government and e-business contribute toward national economic performance, few studies have analyzed the two jointly in a single research model. Using the Technology-Organization-Environment (TOE) framework and the literature on information and communication technology (ICT) impact; we empirically examine facilitators of e-government and e-business development, the relationship between e-government and e-business, and their collective impact on national economic performance. Our results, which emphasize the differential importance of factors associated with the development of e-government and e-business, can be used by national policy makers for designing effective ICT policies. Specifically, national ICT infrastructure appears to be important for both e-government and e-business. Quality of national human capital emerges as a significant facilitator for egovernment but not for e-business, whereas national environment (institutional and macro-economic) appears to be the key enabler for e-business, but not for e-government. Our findings demonstrate the significant and intertwined roles of e-government and e-business in enhancing the national economic performance. With a view to enhancing national economic gains, this research suggests that policy makers should consider measures to enhance development of e-government and e-business collectively rather than in silos. Keywords: e-government, TOE framework, secondary data, IT impact, national economic performance, e-business a
6.20 Cross-country diffusion of the Internet
. Author links open the author workspace.SampsaKiiski
Abstract
This paper investigates the factors which determine the diffusion of the Internet across countries. The Gompertz model of technology diffusion is estimated using data on Internet hosts per capita for the years 1995–2000. For a sample of the OECD countries, the basic finding is that GDP per capita and Internet access cost explain best the observed growth in computer hosts per capita. Competition in telecommunications markets does not seem to exert any independent influence on Internet penetration. Neither is investment in education a statistically significant predictor of its diffusion. For a larger sample of both industrial and developing countries, the results change in such a way that also education becomes significant.
Keywords: Diffusion of technology,Internet ,Internet access cost ,Gompertz model, Technology adoption
Technology diffusion

