Interpretive case studies in IS research: nature and method
Abstract
There has been an increase in recent years in the number of in-depth case studies which focus on human actions and interpretations surrounding the development and use of computer-based information systems (IS). This paper addresses philosophical and theoretical issues concerning the nature of such interpretive case studies, and methodological issues on the conduct and reporting of this type of research. The paper aims to provide a useful reference point for researchers who wish to work in the interpretive tradition, and more generally to encourage careful work on the conceptualisation and execution of case studies in the information systems field.
Wimmer M.a.
A European Perspective towards Online One-Stop Government: the eGOV
Abstract
e-Government reflects current visions for public administrations towards modernization and reorganization. Therefore, online one-stop Government targets the improvement of customer-to-government interactions. It provides electronic public services of distinct public authorities to citizens and businesses in a customer-oriented manner from a single point of access. The customer-oriented approach towards online one-stop Government further offers online public services 24 h a day from anywhere in an easy-to-use and simple way according to the customers’ needs. Structuring public services around citizens’ life-episodes and businesses’ specific situations represents such an approach. To speed up innovative developments in the field, the European Commission has provided substantial funding. eGOV is such an EC-funded project that aims at developing an integrated platform for realizing online one-stop Government. Key innovations of eGOV are: a global access point to enter different governmental services and information at distinct levels of public administration and with different devices; and the development of online one-stop Government process models. To develop an integrated one-stop Government platform, different requirements have to be fulfilled. Here, an holistic development approach provides an important guideline to address different aspects impacting advanced one-stop Government systems. With such an holistic approach, despite the technical developments, integrated process models for online public service delivery are put forward. Furthermore, the legal aspects framing one-stop Government developments and the social impacts of such developments for different user groups are investigated

Montagna Jm
A framework for the assessment and analysis of electronic government proposals
Electronic government or e-government arises as the way to integrate all Internet and computer networks potentialities into public administration. However, there are many technical, organizational and institutional elements to be considered when making a decision of this kind. These elements prevent decision makers from quickly and efficiently analyzing the critical points to approve an initiative related to e-government. This work presents basic criteria for evaluating specific projects in the context of an electronic government policy. These criteria give rise to a very simple framework that allows determining the elements that support an e-government proposal for the various alternatives in which it may appear: in relation to citizens, to the business environment, or to other government areas. This work considers the grounds for determining electronic government action performance to assess the advantages and benefits that specific proposals can provide to government and society.
Ntaliani M
Mobile government: A challenge for agriculture
Abstract
Mobile government (or mGovernment) is a subset of electronic government comprising an alternative provisioning channel of governmental information and services. Governments are increasingly making efforts to provide more access to information and services for citizens, businesses, and civil servants through wireless devices. One of the future challenges for the implementation of mGovernment is the creation of effective business cases (e.g. tourism, health, agriculture). Within this context, the scope of this paper is to study the deployment of mGovernment services in the agricultural sector, taking into account its peculiarities, priorities, and needs. The objective of this paper is twofold: first, to present a framework for identifying appropriate and cost-effective mGovernment services for the agricultural sector and, second, to illustrate the application of the proposed framework, describing a case study for a particular agribusiness sector.

Mobile government: A challenge for agriculture. Available from: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/215639460_Mobile_government_A_challenge_for_agriculture [accessed Jul 19, 2017].
Sharifi H
An adaptive approach for implementing e-government in I.R. Iran
Abstract
Acknowledging the necessity of utilizing the new electronics, information, and communication technologies, the movement toward implementation of e-government in Iran has recently received the attention of the authorities and policy makers. The premise of the work is set around the fact that the e-enabled government is a momentous opportunity for developing countries like Iran to improve and streamline their government's operations, provide breakthrough performance, and reduce their existing gaps with developed countries.This paper reviews the history of e-government in Iran and analyses its related concepts. The criticality of government to government (G-to-G) system is then highlighted, and a model for the development of e-government in Iran as a tailored implementation model based on the national government structure, complexities, and also experiences is proposed. Finally, the structural form and concepts of the Iranian G-to-G is introduced and requirements for its successful implementation are elaborated.

An adaptive approach for implementing e-government in I.R. Iran. Available from: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/223611850_An_adaptive_approach_for_implementing_e-government_in_IR_Iran [accessed Jul 19, 2017].


Susman Gi
An Assessment of the Scientific Merits of Action Research 
Abstract
This article describes the deficiencies of positivist science for generating knowledge for use in solving problems that members of organizations face. Action research is introduced as a method for correcting these deficiencies. When action research is tested against the criteria of positivist science, action research is found not to meet its critical tests. The appropriateness of positivist science is questioned as a basis for judging the scientific merits of action research. Action research can base its legitimacy as science in philosophical traditions that are different from those which legitimate positivist science. Criteria and methods of science appropriate to action research are offered.
Administrative Science Quarterly © 1978 Johnson Graduate School of Management, Cornell University 
Request Permissions 
Rocheleau B

The American Review of Public Administration
Prescriptions for Public-Sector Information Management 

Abstract
This article reviews, analyzes, and assesses prescriptions for public-sector management of information technology (IT). It draws on four sources of such prescriptions: (a) the best-practices literature, based primarily on expert opinion and focused on managerial processes; (b) the empirical IT research literature, based primarily on quantitative analyses of the IT function; (c) benchmarks (the attempt to develop objective measures of the success of IT in public-sector organizations); and (d) the problem/disaster literature, based primarily on analyses of problems and disasters that have occurred in public-sector IT systems. The best-practices literature offers guidance, but the prescriptions are too general, and the methods for identifying best practices need expansion. The empirical literature is valuable and can provide prescriptions for specific technological questions, but the body of research is too sparse and offers contradictory prescriptions. Benchmarking has potential, but the approach is very undeveloped and subject to corruption. The problem/disaster literature offers cautionary examples, but its empirical base is unrepresentative of most failures.
Wimmer M.a.
Trends in electronic government: managing distributed knowledge
Abstract: 
Electronic government (e-government) is as a guiding vision for public administration. It stands for using the Internet, for re-engineering administrative processes, for achieving a virtual administration. It stands also for supporting an active participation of the citizens in democracy. Modern telecommunication infrastructures provide the basic means for co-operation over time and distance. In this way e-government involves many locally and temporally dispersed human actors and machine agents that hold knowledge required in performing administrative work. The challenge for e-Government is to find a successful way of re-engineering and distributing the administration's knowledge. Theoretical and practical insight is provided into various perspectives influencing knowledge management for e-government. These perspectives need to be integrated in a comprehensive approach to develop e-government strategies and systems.

Liao Ts
A framework of electronic tendering for government procurement: A lesson learned in Taiwan
Abstract
To render government procurement efficient, transparent, nondiscriminating, and accountable, an electronic government procurement system is required. Accordingly, Taiwan Government Procurement Law (TGPL) states that suppliers may employ electronic devices to forward a tender. This investigation demonstrates how the electronic government procurement system functions and reengineers internal procurement processes, which in turn benefits both government bodies and venders. The system features explored herein include posting/receiving bids via the Internet, vender registration, certificate authorization, contract development tools, bid/Request For Proposal (RFP) development, online bidding, and online payment, all of which can be integrated easily within most existing information infrastructures.
Do you want to read the rest of this article?

Vassilakis C
A knowledge-based approach for developing multi-channel e-government services
Having realised the benefits resulting from delivering on-line public services in the context of electronic government, administrations strive to extend the spectrum of services offered to citizens and enterprises, as well as to engage multiple communication channels in service delivery, in order to increase the target audience and, consequently, the service effectiveness. Insofar, however, only the web channel has been sufficiently used for service delivery, whereas other channels have not been adequately exploited. One of the main reasons of this lag is the cost incurred for the development and maintenance of multiple versions of an electronic service, each version targeted to a different platform. In this paper, we present an approach and the associated tools for developing and maintaining electronic services that allows the automated production of different versions of the electronic service, each targeted to a specific platform.

Davison R
Principles of canonical action research
 Abstract. Despite the growing prominence of canonical action research (CAR) in the information systems discipline, a paucity of methodological guidance continues to hamper those conducting and evaluating such studies. This article elicits a set of five principles and associated criteria to help assure both the rigor and the relevance of CAR in information systems. The first principle relates to the development of an agreement that facilitates collaboration between the action researcher and the client. The second principle is based upon a cyclical process model for action research that consists of five stages: diagnosis, planning, intervention, evaluation and reflection. Additional principles highlight the critical roles of theory, change through action, and the specification of learning in terms of implications for both research and practice. The five principles are illustrated through the analysis of one recently published CAR study.

Peppard J
Beyond strategic information systems: Towards an IS capability
Abstract
The evolution of information technology (IT) in organizations is often portrayed as following three eras—Data Processing, Management Information Systems, and Strategic Information Systems (SIS)—each displaying distinct characteristics regarding the application of IT and having different objectives. While investments in IT continue to made for both efficiency and effectiveness purposes, the SIS era is premised on management proactively seeking out opportunities for competitive advantage through IT, with approaches to information systems (IS) strategy formulation accommodating the requirement for both alignment of IS/IT investments with corporate strategy and assessing the disruptive impact of technology and the options for its use in shaping business strategy. Frameworks, methodologies and tools have been developed to support the objectives of the SIS era, yet the mechanisms through which organizations achieve repeated and sustained value from IT has received scant attention. Drawing on resource-based theory, this paper proposes a perspective on the management of IT in organizations that specifically considers how organizations can continuously derive and leverage value through IT. The analysis moves beyond a focus on identifying ‘strategic systems’ and develops the concept of an IS capability, suggesting that it heralds the arrival of a new era. The paper presents a model of an IS capability, outlines its core components and illustrates its application.

Beyond strategic information systems: Towards an IS capability (PDF Download Available). Available from: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/222671052_Beyond_strategic_information_systems_Towards_an_IS_capability [accessed Jul 19, 2017].

Pratchett L.
Local Democracy Online: An Analysis of Local Government Web Sites in England and Wales
Abstract
This report from the field analyzes the extent to which local authorities in England and Wales have responded to the e-democracy agenda by examining their Web sites and assessing their potential to deliver democracy. The analysis of Web sites provides a powerful insight into how local government is using the Internet to promote democracy. Two aspects of Web site use are particularly significant. First, the analysis reveals the overall commitment to e-democracy in local government, as it is a measure of actual behavior rather than simply an attitudinal survey. Second, it highlights the types of democratic structure being supported and the values being emphasized in the implementation of e-democracy. The research demonstrated that the potential of the Internet for enhancing democracy is not fully exploited by local authorities and there remain considerable variations between different authorities.
Dwivedi Yk
Profile of IS research published in the European Journal of Information Systems
Abstract
This paper profiles the types of research activity that have been published in EJIS from 1997 to 2007. Our analysis includes variables such as the most productive authors, citation analysis, universities associated with the most research publications, geographic diversity, authors’ background, subject areas most often investigated, unit of analysis and research methodologies. The classification of the topics and methodologies used by the most highly published authors will help prospective authors gauge whether their paper is suitable for EJIS. The major geographical source of information system (IS) research published in EJIS is from AIS region 2 (Europe, the Middle East and Africa), but with a substantial AIS region 1 (American-based researchers and universities) and AIS region 3 (Asia–Pacific) contribution. The most common research method used is the case study approach, with other methods such as surveys and library research also used frequently. IS management and IS development are the two most researched IS topics published in EJIS. This research and results reported in this paper are comparable with a previous paper published about the Information Systems Journal. Any further such studies will thus be able to make similar comparisons between these journals and any others that have subsequently been covered in this way. The paper concludes with the need for more substantive research on the topic if journal comparisons are to achieve their potential.
Keywords
IS research meta-analysis productive authors research paradigm research profile 
Siau K
Synthesizing e‐government stage models – a meta‐synthesis based on meta‐ethnography approach
  Abstract :
Purpose
– The growing interest in e‐government raises the question of stages in e‐government development. A few stage models for e‐government have been proposed. Without a common e‐government stage model, different research in e‐government may be based on different stage models. This presents a difficulty in comparing and understanding different research results. In this research, we synthesize the existing e‐government stage models so that there is a common frame of reference for researchers and practitioners in the area.

Design/methodology/approach
– This research utilizes a qualitative meta‐synthesis methodology to synthesize different e‐government stage models. The meta‐synthesis follows the steps used in meta‐ethnography.

Findings
– Five different e‐government stage models were used in this research. We translated the stages within different models into one another and developed a new e‐government stage model. The new e‐government stage model has the following five stages: web presence, interaction, transaction, transformation, and e‐democracy.
Research limitations/implications
– The paper contributes to e‐government theory development. The new five‐stage model provides a synthesized conceptual framework for researchers to evaluate and understand e‐government development.
Practical implications
– The synthesized e‐government stage model presents a road map for practitioners to follow in their e‐government projects.

Originality/value
– The research uses an innovative and new research methodology to synthesize the existing research. It is one of the first research in the information systems area to make use of meta‐synthesis approach to consolidate the existing qualitative research. This paper is also one of the one papers to systematically come up with an e‐government stage model.

Keywords: 
Communication technologies, Government, Innovation


