

cluster 8
8.1Paradoxes of Public Sector Customer Service
Authors
Jane E. Fountain
Abstract

The use of customer service ideas in government continues to be widespread, although the concept and its implications for public sector service production and delivery remain poorly developed. This paper presents a series of paradoxes related to customer service and its use in government. The central and most troubling paradox is that customer service techniques and tools applied to government may lead to increased political inequality even as some aspects of service are improved. The argument is structured by examination of the following: the predominant structural features of service management in theprivate sector, the assumption that customer satisfaction is a central objective of service firms, the understanding of customer service that informs current federal reform efforts, and the operational and political challenges of customer service as a public management objective.
8.2.
Theory Building From Cases: Opportunities And Challenges
Kathleen M. Eisenhardt
Abstract

This article discusses the research strategy of theory building from cases, particularly multiple cases. Such a strategy involves using one or more cases to create theoretical constructs, propositions, and/or midrange theory from case-based, empirical evidence. Replication logic means that each case serves as a distinct experiment that stands on its own merits as an analytic unit. The frequent use of case studies as a research strategy has given rise to some challenges that can be mitigated by the use of very precise wording and thoughtful research design.

RESEARCH CASE studies REASONING (Logic) PROBLEM solving PROBABILITIES THEORY EMPIRICAL research REPLICATION (Experimental design)
8.3
An institutional analysis of an e-government system for anti-corruption: The case of OPEN
. Author links open the author workspace.SeongcheolKima. Numbers and letters correspond to the affiliation list. Click to expose these in author workspaceOpens the author workspace. Author links open the author workspace.Hyun JeongKimb. Numbers and letters correspond to the affiliation list. Click to expose these in author workspaceOpens the author workspace. Author links open the author workspace.HeejinLeec. Numbers and letters correspond to the affiliation list.  
Abstract
E-government is increasingly being used to improve transparency in the government sector and to combat corruption. Using institutional theory as an analytical perspective, this study documents and evaluates the development of an anti-corruption system called OPEN (Online Procedures ENhancement for civil application) in the Seoul Metropolitan Government. Incorporating three distinctive (yet interrelated) dimensions of institutionalization (regulatory/coercive, cognitive/mimetic, and normative), and four anti-corruption strategies embedded in the system, this study investigates how an e-government system for anti-corruption in a local government has evolved and become a prototype of a national system to be used for the same purpose. The findings show that in implementing OPEN, a system for anti-corruption, the regulatory dimension was most effective, and (as in many IS implementations) strong leadership was crucial to its success.

Keywords
1E-governmentTransparencyAnti-corruptionOPENSeoul Metropolitan GovernmentInstitutionalizationLeadership
8.4
Information systems in the public sector: The e-Government enactment framework
. Author links open the author workspace.AntonioCordella
Abstract
Despite the burgeoning number of studies of public sector information systems, very few scholars have focussed on the relationship between e-Government policies and information systems choice and design. Drawing on Fountain’s (2001) technology enactment framework, this paper endeavours to conduct an in-depth investigation of the intricacies characterising the choice and design of new technologies in the context of e-Government reforms. By claiming that technologies are carriers of e-Government reform aims, this study investigates the logics embedded in the design of new technology and extant political interests and values inscribed in e-Government policies. The e-Government enactment framework is proposed as a theoretical and analytical approach to understand and study the complexity of these relationships which shape e-Government policies.
Keywords
e-Government enactment frameworkTechnology enactment frameworkPublic sector ICTe-GovernmentCase study research
8.5
A Stakeholder Framework for Analyzing and Evaluating Corporate Social Performance
Max E. Clarkson1
 Abstract

This article presents conclusions from a 10-year research program, the purpose of which has been to develop a framework and methodology, grounded in the reality of corporate behavior, for analyzing and evaluating corporate social performance. There are three principal sections: (a) a summary of the approaches, models, and methodologies used in conducting more than 70 field studies of corporate social performance from 1983-1993; (b) a discussion of the principal conclusions derived from the data that (1) corporations manage relationships with stakeholder groups rather than with society as a whole, (2) it is important to distinguish between social issues and stakeholder issues, and (3) it is necessary to identify the appropriate level of analysis in order to evaluate CSP; and (c) a discussion of propositions and areas for further research.

SOCIAL responsibility of business STAKEHOLDERS CORPORATE power INDUSTRIES — Social aspects CAPITALISTS & financiers ORGANIZATIONAL behavior SOCIAL influence CONSTITUENTS (Persons) ORGANIZATIONAL sociology INDUSTRIAL sociology SOCIAL developmen
8.6
Good governance, development theory, and aid policy: Risks and challenges of e-government in Jordan
Claudio Ciborra  
Abstract
Poor governance is among the most important causes of state failure and underdevelopment. Hence innovations and reforms in the governmental and bureaucratic apparatus are an important prerequisite for development. E-government policy initiatives have gained international validity by the donor community as a catalyst for such reforms. To be sure, the characteristics of the state model implicit in e-government applications and the economics of transition from a backward state organization to e-government are equally relevant for the success of the initiative. This study focuses on the analysis and early design of e-government solutions in a less-developed country: Jordan. It shows that implementing a general standardized ICT portfolio to support good governance proves to be a difficult task and that there are a number of risks emerging from development aid policies aimed at good governance. The paper provides suggestive evidence that e-government and the view of the minimal state put forward by international development agencies might not be conducive to rapid late development. The New Institutional Economics provides an illuminating framework for this purpose. © 2005 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

Keywords: e-government, good governance, LDCs, institutions, development, risk, Jordan
8.7
Governance in the digital age: A research and action framework for an uncertain future
 .Sharon S.Dawes
Abstract
Research into relationships among government, society and technology has grown substantially over the past 30 years. However, most research and most advances in practice address narrowly defined categories of concern such as government organization, citizen services, interoperability, or personal privacy. By contrast, the future presents complex and dynamic challenges that demand a more holistic and flexible perspective, including consideration of what constitutes an appropriate infrastructure for continued development of government and governance in the digital age. This paper outlines a conceptual framework for considering the future, drawn from a stakeholder-driven investigation into potential scenarios of society and government. The framework reflects a dynamic socio-technical system encompassing interactions among societal trends, human elements, changing technology, information management, interaction and complexity, and the purpose and role of government.

Keywords
GovernanceE-governmentDigital governmentE-governanceInfrastructure
8.8
Using institutional theory and dynamic simulation to understand complex e-Government phenomena
 
Abstract
Governments around the world have developed e-Government programs expecting to obtain important benefits such as improved efficiency or greater transparency. However, many e-Government projects fail to deliver their promises in terms of specific outcomes. Some of such failures are the result of a lack of understanding about the relationships among technologies, information use, organizational factors, institutional arrangements, and socio-economic contexts involved in the selection, implementation, and use of information and communication technologies (ICT), producing mismatches and unintended consequences. This paper proposes the use of institutional theory and dynamic simulation, particularly system dynamics, as an integrated and comprehensive approach to understand e-Government phenomena. Combining a sound theory and a sophisticated analytical technique will help to improve our understanding about ICT in government settings. The paper draws on the case of the e-Mexico program, particularly on the strategy to create web-based content portals for citizens in the areas of education, health, economy, and government. Using the same technological infrastructure and under the leadership of the same Federal Ministry, four different networks of government and non-government organizations engaged in the creation of internet portals and their content. The results provide evidence to demonstrate important bidirectional relationships between formal processes (institutions), agency networks (organizational forms), and the resulting characteristics of the four thematic portals (enacted technology).

 
? We model interorganizational networks which develop government content portals. ? We create four simulation scenarios grounded in Mexican interorganizational networks. ? Organizational engagement and content creation form a key reinforcing process. ? Processes legitimacy influences both organizational engagement and content creation. ? Inertia from previous collaborations also influences organizational engagement.

Keywords
Institutional theoryTechnology enactment frameworkSystem dynamicsMexicoe-MexicoGovernment portal
8.9 
Author:	M. Lynne Markus	Alfred P.
Theories of resistance to management information systems (MIS) are important because they guide the implementation strategies and tactics chosen by implementors. Three basic theories of the causes of resistance underlie many prescriptions and rules for MIS implementation. Simply stated, people resist MIS because of their own internal factors, because of poor system design, and because of the interaction of specific system design features with aspects of the organizational context of system use. These theories differ in their basic assumptions about systems, organizations, and resistance; they also differ in predictions that can be derived from them and in their implications for the implementation process. These differences are described and the task of evaluating the theories on the bases of the differences is begun. Data from a case study are used to illustrate the theories and to demonstrate the superiority, for implementors, of the interaction theory.
8.9
Information systems in developing countries: a critical research review
Authors
Authors and affiliations
Chrisanthi Avgerou
8.10
Capturing the Complexity in Advanced Technology Use: Adaptive Structuration Theory

Gerardine DeSanctis
The past decade has brought advanced information technologies, which include electronic messaging systems, executive information systems, collaborative systems, group decision support systems, and other technologies that use sophisticated information management to enable multiparty participation in organization activities. Developers and users of these systems hold high hopes for their potential to change organizations for the better, but actual changes often do not occur, or occur inconsistently. We propose adaptive structuration theory (AST) as a viable approach for studying the role of advanced information technologies in organization change. AST examines the change process from two vantage points: (1) the types of structures that are provided by advanced technologies, and (2) the structures that actually emerge in human action as people interact with these technologies. To illustrate the principles of AST, we consider the small group meeting and the use of a group decision support system (GDSS). A GDSS is an interesting technology for study because it can be structured in a myriad of ways, and social interaction unfolds as the GDSS is used. Both the structure of the technology and the emergent structure of social action can be studied.

We begin by positioning AST among competing theoretical perspectives of technology and change. Next, we describe the theoretical roots and scope of the theory as it is applied to GDSS use and state the essential assumptions, concepts, and propositions of AST. We outline an analytic strategy for applying AST principles and provide an illustration of how our analytic approach can shed light on the impacts of advanced technologies on organizations. A major strength of AST is that it expounds the nature of social structures within advanced information technologies and the key interaction processes that figure in their use. By capturing these processes and tracing their impacts, we can reveal the complexity of technology-organization relationships. We can attain a better understanding of how to implement technologies, and we may also be able to develop improved designs or educational programs that promote productive adaptations.

Keywords: information technology ; structural theory ; technology impacts
8.11
The boundaries of information sharing and integration: A case study of Taiwan e-Government
. Author links open the author workspace.Tung-MouYang

Power, politics, and MIS implementation
Abstract
The paper explores boundaries of cross-boundary information sharing and integration in the context of Taiwan e-Government by using an integrated framework of boundaries adopted from the literature. The discussion of the various boundaries provides a thorough lens to understand the complexity of cross-boundary information sharing and integration. The adopted framework of boundaries is proved to be a useful analytical tool to perceive various vertical and horizontal boundaries in initiatives of cross-boundary information sharing and integration in different e-Government contexts. A new process boundary in the vertical dimension is also identified. In addition, the case shows that centralized information systems can help government agencies to cross the boundaries of information sharing and reduce the number of boundaries government agencies may encounter. Lastly, it is perceived that vertical boundaries are not always easier to cross than horizontal boundaries.

Highlights

? Five boundaries are identified in the vertical dimension. ? Six boundaries are identified in the horizontal dimension. ? Centralized information systems to cross and alleviate boundaries. ? Vertical boundaries are not always easier to cross.
Keywords
Information sharingBoundaryElectronic governmentTaiwan
8.12
Extending Social Cognitive Theory for Understanding Citizen
Adoption of Online Public Grievance Redressal System (OPGRS)
Abstract
The study explores the level to which the e-government system such as online public grievance
redressal system (OPGRS) is adopted by the citizens in India. A research framework has been
developed based on the social cognitive theory. The model developed includes the constructs
such as outcome expectation, affect, anxiety, self-efficacy, social influence, and behavioural
intentions. Fifteen hundred questionnaires were distributed to the citizens from eight selected
cities covering all north, south, east, and west regions in India. The proposed extended research
model of social cognitive theory was validated using 419 valid responses from different cities of
India. The data were analysed using structural equation modelling (SEM) technique through
AMOS 20.0. The empirical outcomes of the proposed model indicated the significant
relationships of all seven hypotheses between six constructs. The empirical substantiation,
discussion, and managerial implications provided in this publication can help the Indian
government to improve upon and fully utilise the potential of the OPGRS as a useful tool toward
a transparent and corruption free society. The research also presents its limitations and directions
for future research.
Keywords: E-Government, Adoption, Factors, Social Cognitive Theory, Citizens, India. 
8.13
Public Value Management
A New Narrative for Networked Governance?
Gerry Stoker
Abstract
The aim of this article is to clarify the nature of the management style most suited to the emergence of networked governance. The paradigms of traditional public administration and new public management sit uncomfortably with networked governance. In contrast, it is argued the public value management paradigm bases its practice in the systems of dialogue and exchange that characterize networked governance. Ultimately, the strength of public value management is seen to rest on its ability to point to a motivational force that does not solely rely on rules or incentives to drive public service practice and reform. People are, it suggests, motivated by their involvement in networks and partnerships, that is, their relationships with others formed in the context of mutual respect and shared learning. Building successful relationships is the key to networked governance and the core objective of the management needed to support it.
8.14
eGovernment as a Carrier of Context
Richard Heeks1Abstract
eGovernment is a global project of technology transfer, taking designs from one
context into a different context. This transfer may take place from country to country
or, more subtly, from one group to another. This paper focuses on the former type,
using examples of 'e-transparency' projects. But it offers insights into all types of egovernment
project.
The insights suggest a complex interweaving between technology and context. We
find that the context of design is inscribed into e-government systems in both explicit
and implicit ways. These design inscriptions can mismatch the context of
deployment/use, creating a contextual collision that can often lead to e-government
failure. In other cases, though, there is some form of accommodation between the two
contexts: users may appropriate inscribed elements to their own purposes, or there
may even be a reciprocating accommodation between contexts leading to a viable
system.
Factors that shape these outcomes – either failure or accommodation – are identified,
as are the networks of interests that determine the design inscription and deployment
accommodation processes. Conclusions are drawn about policy on e-government
project design and development of e-government capacities; and about the value of
knowledge-building for e-government from developing/transitional economy cases
and from the literature on sociology of technology.8.15
E-government and organizational change: Reappraising the role of ICT and bureaucracy in public service delivery
. Author links open the author workspace.AntonioCordella
Abstract
There is a substantial literature on e-government that discusses information and communication technology (ICT) as an instrument for reducing the role of bureaucracy in government organizations. The purpose of this paper is to offer a critical discussion of this literature and to provide a complementary argument which favors the use of ICT in the public sector to support the operations of bureaucratic organizations. Based on the findings of a case study – of the Venice Municipality in Italy – the paper discusses how ICT can be used to support rather than eliminate bureaucracy. Using the concepts of e-bureaucracy and functional simplification and closure, the paper proposes evidence and support for the argument that bureaucracy should be preserved and enhanced where e-government policies are concerned. Functional simplification and closure are very valuable concepts for explaining why this should be a viable approach.

Keywords
E-bureaucracyE-governmentICT enabled public sector reforms
8.16
Value creation, ICT, and co-production in public sector: bureaucracy, opensourcing and crowdsourcing
	Antonio Cordella
This paper contributes to the e-government literature discussing the role of ICTs as enabler of different modes of production of public services. E-government developments are often associated with organization transformations aimed to increase the efficiency and the effectiveness of the internal production of public services or to facilitate the exchange of information and the coordination among different public organizations. However, ICTs can also enable the co-production of public services allowing citizens or non-public organizations, such as NGOs, social enterprises or private companies to co-produce public services with public sector organizations. ICTs can generate new relationships and dynamics that involve actors and resources outside public organizations modifying the ways by which the value embedded in the services is produced. This paper critically describes and compares four ICTs mediated modes of public services production and discusses the two alternative logics of public service production underpinning these four modes of public service production. The paper further discusses the organizational configurations behind each of the ICTs mediated modes of production.

Powered by The ACM Guide to Computing Literature


The ACM Digital Library is published by the Association for Computing Machinery. Copyright © 2017 ACM, Inc.
8.17
 
DIGITAL GOVERNMENT AND ITS EFFECTIVENESS IN PUBLIC MANAGEMENT REFORM
A local government perspective
Mehdi Asgarkhani
Abstract
Today, access to information and communication technologies (ICTs) plays an essential role in economic and social development. Accelerated change in the introduction of ICT-enabled solutions can potentially transform all aspects of society, work, business and government. E-technologies and ICT-enabled solutions bring about new forms of governance in the public sector. It is evident that the Internet and Web-based technologies have both had a profound effect on the ways in which the public sector functions. This article examines the effectiveness and the value of digital government as a strategic tool for public management reform. It addresses differing views and perceptions of the implications of digital government; elaborates on the ‘digital divide’ and its impact on the success of digital government; and outlines the results of a preliminary study of the effectiveness of a digital local government initiative.

Keywords: Digital divide, digital government, e-government, e-readiness, local government, public sector reform
8.19
Trust in Governance Networks
Its Impacts on Outcomes
Erik-Hans Klijn, Jurian Edelenbos, 
Abstract
Governance networks are characterized by complex interaction and decision making, and much uncertainty. Surprisingly, there is very little research on the impact of trust in achieving results in governance networks. This article asks two questions: (a) Does trust influence the outcomes of environmental projects? and (b) Does active network management improve the level of trust in networks? The study is based on a Web-based survey of respondents involved in environmental projects. The results indicate that trust does matter for perceived outcomes and that network management strategies enhance the level of trust.
8.20
The social media innovation challenge in the public sector
Abstract: The use of social media applications has been widely accepted in the U.S. government. Many of the social media strategies and day-to-day tactics have also been adopted around the world as part of local Open Government Initiatives and the worldwide Open Government Partnership. Nevertheless, the acceptance and broader adoption of sophisticated tactics that go beyond information and education paradigm such as true engagement or networking strategies are still in its infancy. Rapid diffusion is challenged by informal bottom-up experimentation that meets institutional and organizational challenges hindering innovative tactics. Going forward governments and bureaucratic organizations are also facing the challenge to show the impact of their social media interactions. Each of these challenges is discussed in this article and extraordinary examples, that are not widely adopted yet, are provided to show how government organizations can potentially overcome these challenges.
Keywords: Social networking, social media, ICT adoption
