Cluster5
1 Lane : Developing fully functional E-government: A four stage model Karen Laynea,*, Jungwoo Leeb a College of Urban Affairs, University of Nevada Las Vegas, 4505 Maryland Parkway 6026, Las Vegas, NV 89154-6026 USA b College of Business, University of Nevada Las Vegas, 4505 Maryland Parkway 6009, Las Vegas, NV 89154-60009 USA Abstract Literature reports the experiences with e-government initiatives as chaotic and unmanageable, despite recent numerous initiatives at different levels of government and academic and practitioners’ conferences on e-government. E-government presents a number of challenges for public administrators. To help public administrators think about e-government and their organizations, this article describes different stages of e-government development and proposes a ‘stages of growth’ model for fully functional e-government. Various government websites and related e-government initiatives help to ground and explain this model. These stages outline the multi-perspective transformation within government structures and functions as they make transitions to e-government through each stage. Technological and organizational challenges for each stage accompany these descriptions. At the same time, this paper describes how the e-government becomes amalgamated with traditional public administrative structure
5.2 Gil-Garcia :Understanding the evolution of e-government: The influence of systems of rules on public sector dynamics☆ J. Ramon Gil-Garcia a,b,⁎,1, Ignacio J. Martinez-Moyano c,1 a Center for Technology in Government, University at Albany, SUNY, USA b National Center for Digital Government, John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, USA c Decision and Information Sciences Division, Argonne National Laboratory, USA1 Available online 21 July 2006 Abstract Electronic government has been defined as the use of information and communication technologies in government settings. However, it is neither a homogeneous nor a static phenomenon. Recent empirical studies have identified two important dynamics in e-government evolution. First, egovernment in general has evolved from its initial presence on the Internet to more transactional and integrated applications. Second, at the aggregate level and as a general trend, national governments have started adding technological and organizational sophistication and state and local governments have followed. Based on the study of systems of rules, this paper argues that these two dynamics in the evolution of e-government are, at least in 
part, the result of pressures from public managers attempting to solve problems and from citizens, businesses, and other stakeholders, attempting to control the actions of public managers. Both forces, related to performance and accountability, respectively, have promoted change in the systems of rules governing the design, implementation, and use of e-government initiatives. Specifically, they have generated a cycle that continually increases technological and organizational sophistication in e-government initiatives and have also promoted the episodic and evolving adoption of similar features across levels of government. .   Keywords: Government; Electronic government; Digital government; Evolution of e-government; Performance; Accountability; Systems of rules

3Golden O :Innovation in public sector human services programs: The implications of innovation by “groping along”
This paper examines innovation in seventeen human services programs cited by the 1986 Ford Foundation Awards Program for Innovations in State and Local Government. The sample is particularly useful for distinguishing between two models for successful innovation: a policy planning model and Behn's model of “groping along.” The cases suggest that the “groping along” model best fits the way that innovation came about in these programs. Innovative ideas typically developed through practice; programs began operating very quickly; and programs, once operating, were repeatedly modified in response to operational experience. Translating the groping-along model into specific prescriptions for managers requires us to reconsider the role of analysis. The case examples suggest that analysis may be most valuable in helping managers learn from experience.
model,local-government
4 Peter J.Rousseeuw Silhouettes: A graphical aid to the interpretation and validation of cluster analysis
. Author links open the author workspace.
Abstract
A new graphical display is proposed for partitioning techniques. Each cluster is represented by a so-called silhouette, which is based on the comparison of its tightness and separation. This silhouette shows which objects lie well within their cluster, and which ones are merely somewhere in between clusters. The entire clustering is displayed by combining the silhouettes into a single plot, allowing an appreciation of the relative quality of the clusters and an overview of the data configuration. The average silhouette width provides an evaluation of clustering validity, and might be used to select an ‘appropriate’ number of clusters.
Keywords Graphical display ,cluster analysis, clustering validity, classification
5. Ho alt K :Have Cities Shifted to Outcome-Oriented Performance Reporting?—A Content Analysis of City Budgets
Authors
Alfred Tat-Kei Ho,Anna Ya Ni
Outcome” orientation has been emphasized in performance measurement and reporting in recent years. Using budgetary documents of the largest cities in the United States, this paper analyzes more than 4,800 performance measures reported by 21 cities to show that clear progress toward outcome-oriented performance measurement has been made. It also shows that the selection of performance measures differs among types of municipal services and is driven partly by professionalism in city management and the influence of professional organizations. The paper concludes by discussing the implications of the findings and potential future improvements of performance reporting
6. Norris Df :e-government... not e-governance... not e-democracy not now!: not ever
The argument that I offer in this paper, supported by literature and empirical evidence, is that e-government is just that -- electronic government -- and little more. I define e-government as the delivery by alternate, electronic means of governmental information and services 24/7/365. It is government to citizen (G2C), government to government (G2B) and government to business (G2G). It is the outward face of the use of information and communications technologies (ICTs) by government to (hence the "2") deliver information and services. E-government occurs primarily, although not solely, via official governmental websites. E-government is not e-democracy or e-governance and does not appear to be heading in the direction of becoming either.
5.Moon j: Does managerial orientation matter? The adoption of reinventing government and e-government at the municipal level*
Abstract. This paper explores the effect of managerial innovativeness in municipal government on the adoption of e-government, and it examines the association between the adoption of e-government and its outcome. The authors posit an exploratory model: The first part of the model shows how adoption of municipal e-government is determined by managerial innovativeness orientation, government capacity and institutional characteristics such as city size and government type. The second part suggests how e-government outcomes are associated with the adoption of e-government, government capacity and institutional characteristics. Analysing two different survey data sets of American municipal reinvention and e-government, this study finds that managerial innovativeness orientation and city size are the most compelling determinants of municipal e-government adoption. Different levels of e-government adoption may yield different outcomes.
6. CHRISTOPHER HOOD;A PUBLIC MANAGEMENT FOR ALL SEASONS?
This article discusses: the doctrinal content of the group of ideas known as ‘new public management’(NPM); the intellectual provenance of those ideas; explanations for their apparent persuasiveness in the 1980 s; and criticisms which have been made of the new doctrines. Particular attention is paid to the claim that NPM offers an all-purpose key to better provision of public services. This article argues that NFM has been most commonly criticized in terms of a claimed contradiction between ‘equity’ and ‘efficiency’ values, but that any critique which is to survive NPM's claim to ‘infinite reprogrammability’ must be couched in terms of possible conflicts between administrative values. The conclusion is that the ESRC'S Management in Government’ research initiative has been more valuable in helping to identify rather than to definitively answer, the key conceptual questions raised by NPM.
7. Jooho Lee :Determinants of Government Bureaucrats' New PMIS Adoption
The Role of Organizational Power, IT Capability, Administrative Role, and Attitude
This study examines factors that influence adoption of new public management information systems (PMIS) by bureaucrats in the Korean government. The author proposes a theory that public bureaucrats' adoption of new PMIS depends on their power within the hierarchical structure, their ability to use existing computer applications, their administrative role, and their attitude toward the effect of information and telecommunication technologies (IT) on managerial values and on the interaction between organizational power and IT capability. The author uses 1998 survey data on electronic approval systems (EAS) of central government agencies and local governments in Korea and finds that at the early stage, public bureaucrats with less power adopted new EAS. However, public bureaucrats with more power adopted new EAS when they had greater IT capability. Public bureaucrats' organizational power influences their adoption of EAS but depends on their IT capability. Also, in central agencies, program professionals adopt EAS earlier, and in local government, IT staff do.
8. Bhat nagar: 2003 E-government and access to information Subhash Bhatnagar Among the many tools being developed to fight corruption, there has been much focus lately on e-government – the use of communications technology like the Internet and mobile phones to open up government processes and enable greater public access to information.1 E-government includes the publication of information on a website so that citizens can download application forms for a variety of government services. It can also involve the actual delivery of services, such as filing a tax return or renewing a licence. More sophisticated applications include processing on-line payments. In developed countries, these services are offered in a self-service mode through the Internet, often via portals that are a single point of interaction between the citizen and a broad range of departments. In developing countries, on-line service counters may operate in a department offering services related only to that department. In some countries, citizen service centres have been created at convenient locations where citizens can access on-line services of several departments. At these counters, run either by departmental or private operators, the public does not directly interact with computer screens, and collection of payments is often handled through conventional means. The benefits from the on-line delivery of services include convenience (location and time) and shorter waiting periods. E-government systems may also lead to greater transparency and reduced administrative corruption. So far, however, the reduction of corruption opportunities has often been an incidental benefit, rather than an explicit objective of e-government
9 Oliver:Keywords:sentiment analysis, social media and public administration
10. Christopher G.Reddicka :Social media adoption at the American grass roots: Web 2.0 or 1.5?
Department Examines 2011 survey of local government social media adoption.
E-information and services adoption consistent with previous research.
E-transactions adoption somewhat less consistent.
Social media closer to e-information and services adoption.
Abstract
In this paper, we examine data from a 2011 survey of grassroots (or local) governments in the United States with respect to their adoption of social media (e.g., Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, blogs, and Flickr) especially to ascertain the drivers of local government social media adoption and whether the drivers are similar to or different from the drivers of e-government adoption. We also address whether the adoption of social media portends a move by local governments from Web 1.0 to Web 2.0.
The findings of this research show that the principal drivers of local government adoption of e-information and services are highly consistent with those of previous research: size of government, type and form of government, region of the country, education, years of e-government experience, and the existence of a separate IT department are all related to adoption. The drivers of adoption of e-transactions are consistent, but somewhat less so, with prior research. And, the drivers of adoption of social media are closer to those of e-information and services than of e-transactions.
Based on evidence from the survey (local governments use social media mainly for one-way communication) and prior studies of IT and government and e-government, we conclude that social media today do not appear to be moving local governments in the direction of Web 2.0, but perhaps in the direction of Web 1.5.
Keywords
E-government, democracy, Local government, Social media, of Public Administ

11. Shirley‐Ann Hazlett E‐government: the realities of using IT to transform the public sector

This paper examines how electronic government is being used in the delivery and improvement of public services in the UK, and the actual and potential problems inherent in this. Although there have been examples of very creative use of electronic government in the public sector, there have also been numerous spectacular failures. This paper highlights a number of problematic issues surrounding its use. These include the fact that government's two central aims, namely high quality customer service and value‐for‐money, could potentially be in conflict; and the lack of evidence to support the claim that the use of technology in service delivery results in less bureaucracy and increased quality. Clearly these tensions and issues need to be much more fully explored so that a “government for people” can be created. The paper concludes by posing the question: Can e‐government produce truly innovative, responsive public services, or merely exacerbate electronically, existing shortcomings?
Keywords:
Technology led strategy, Customer service management, Customer services quality, Change management
12Eric W. WelchThe relationship between transparent and participative government: A study of local governments in the United States
Abstract
The relationship between transparency and participation of government is not well articulated in the literature. Transparency provides stakeholders with knowledge about the processes, structures and products of government. Participation refers to the quantity, quality and diversity of input of stakeholders into government decision-making. Greater transparency and participation are often considered to operate side by side. However, in the Internet age the change in the magnitude of information disclosure may outweigh the change in the level of participative government. This article uses data from a 2010 national survey of five US local government agencies to test hypotheses about the relationship between transparency and participation and the factors that affect them. Findings show that participation is positively associated with transparency, but transparency does not lead to participation. In addition, organizations that are under stronger influence from external stakeholders report higher levels of participation but in some cases higher levels of external influence dampen transparency.
 For practitioners, the article provides a framework for understanding the relationship between transparency and participation as two dimensions of open government. While in some departments these two dimensions are present at similar levels, in others they are not. For example, among five departments, police report the lowest overall participation and transparency levels, while parks and recreation and the mayor’s office report the highest transparency and participation levels, respectively. In addition, police departments report significantly higher transparency than participation, while the reverse is true for community development departments. The article provides public administrators with greater insight into causes of and relationships between transparency and participation.
Key words: participative government, transparency,

13 Janice Burn:Moving towards e‐government: a case study of organisational change processes
Looks at an online strategy project at Legal Aid in Western Australia. Begins with an overview of e‐government and the Western Australian Government context, and then discusses the research model and methodology. Gives a background to the case and analyses the change management process against a comprehensive model of business process change. Concludes with some lessons learned and future directions for research in this area.
Keywords:
Internet, Strategy, Change management, Government, Australia
5.14Bertot: The E-Government paradox: Better customer service doesn't necessarily cost less
***not abstract: The adoption of new technology, social processes, and the sharing of skills and practices are all brought together in Bakardjieva's concept of 'the warm expert' (Bakardjieva, 2005)The warm experts are characterized by their accessibility, their skills, and finally their knowledge of the novice, which allows them to explain how IT works in a manner that makes sense to the novice. Although Bakardjieva focuses on the warm experts' IT skills, other studies show that citizens' lack of knowledge of the specific public service in question and bureaucracy in general also affects CC and can hinder the use of e-government channels (Bertot & Jaeger, 2008;Grönlund, Hatakka, & Ask, 2007;Skaarup, 2012). Therefore we will supplement with an examination of citizens' 'administrative literacy', defined byGrönlund, but we seek to answer them through a qualitative study informed by domestication theory and the concept of 'the warm expert'.
5.15 Ian Holliday,: E-government in China
1.   Abstract
The article analyses e-government progress in China. It provides a brief overview of benchmarking studies and their evaluation of China, plus a contextual analysis of e-government initiatives in China and of the changing official position witnessed in the past two decades. It then takes stock of e-government in China in the first quarter of 2004. On this basis, it considers the significance of contemporary e-government activity for Chinese governance. The argument is that e-government is currently having no more than a limited impact on the Chinese public sector. However, there are strong grounds for optimism about future developmen
516: Web Site Usability, Design, and Performance Metrics
Web sites provide the key interface for consumer use of the Internet. This research reports on a series of three studies that developand validate Web site usability, design and performance metrics, including download delay, navigability, site content, interactivity, and responsiveness. The performance metric that was developed includes the subconstructs user satisfaction, the likelihood of return, and the frequency of use.
Data was collected in 1997, 1999, and 2000 from corporate Web sites via three methods, namely, a jury, third-party ratings, and a software agent. Significant associations between Web site design elements and Web site performance indicate that the constructs demonstrate good nomological validity. Together, the three studies provide a set of measures with acceptable validity and reliability. The findings also suggest lack of significant common methods biases across the jury-collected data, third-party data, and agent-collected data.
Results suggest that Web site success is a first-order construct. Moreover, Web site success is significantly associated with Web site download delay (speed of access and display rate within the Web site), navigation (organization, arrangement, layout, and sequencing), content (amount and variety of product information), interactivity (customization and interactivity), and responsiveness (feedback options and FAQs).
Keywords: e-Commerce, Web Metrics, or Measurement ; Web Site Usability ; Design and Performance Constructs ; Construct Validity ; Nomological Validity

My library
5.17An evaluative framework for analysing e-government convergence capability in developing countries
P Banerjee, PYK Chau – E
Abstract
The e-government objectives of a country go well beyond providing constituents with government information and services by leveraging information and communication technology. Although it is a crucial step, the desired goal is that of convergence characterised by ubiquitous access to government information and services and total transparency of government functioning, a stage that contributes to the social and economic wellbeing of citizens. Some developed countries are already engaged in the transformation of the governance process through increased citizen participation and are attempting to create an open, transparent environment through convergence of information and services. However, developing economies, especially poor ones, lag far behind their more progressive counterparts. Based on prior literature, this study proposes an evaluative framework for analysing e-government convergence capability in developing countries and applies it to analyse the prospects of convergence in a few selected developing countries. The results indicate that the quality and range of government information and services vary significantly across the countries, attributed in some measure to the e-leadership capability of the countries. However, we argue that e-leadership may not be able to readily combat social maladies, such as low literacy and awareness education, required for the meaningful use of information and interaction, or economic handicaps, such as living standards that impact on the citizen's ability to procure web-based access; these factors are crucial for e-government convergence.
Keywords: e-government convergence, e-leadership, administrative reforms
