Cluster 9
9.1  Verdegem P
User-centered E-Government in practice: A comprehensive model for measuring user satisfaction
Abstract
New information and communication technologies (ICT) offer the government new possibilities for providing citizens and businesses with better, more efficient services. Criticism about the provision of E-Government services, however, has proposed a more user-oriented approach. The user needs to be placed at the 
center of the development and the provision of electronic public services. Simultaneously, it is important to investigate the impact of the new services on customers. User satisfaction may indeed have a decisive influence on large-scale adoption and use of E-Government services. This article describes the development of a comprehensive model for measuring user satisfaction in the context of E-Government. It rethinks the e-strategies of government and subsequently presents a conceptual model derived from ICT acceptance theory. Both quantitative as well as qualitative research have been carried out in order to elaborate the model and to formulate adequate indicators for measuring user satisfaction. The measurement model has been tested using data from five Flemish E-Government websites. Structural equation modeling (SEM) was applied in order to investigate the goodness of fit of the model and the underlying indicators. Based on the results, it becomes possible to reduce the list of indicators to nine items, still covering the full conceptual model. With this shortlist of satisf

User-centered E-Government in practice: A comprehensive model for measuring user satisfaction. Available from: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/222936797_User-centered_E-Government_in_practice_A_comprehensive_model_for_measuring_user_satisfaction [accessed Jul 19, 2017].

9.2  Vonhippel E
Lead Users: A Source of Novel Product Concepts 
AbstractAccurate marketing research depends on accurate user judgments regarding their needs. However, for very novel products or in product categories characterized by rapid change-such as "high technology" products-most potential users will not have the real-world experience needed to problem solve and provide accurate data to inquiring market researchers. In this paper I explore the problem and propose a solution: Marketing research analyses which focus on what I term the "lead users" of a product or process.
Lead users are users whose present strong needs will become general in a marketplace months or years in the future. Since lead users are familiar with conditions which lie in the future for most others, they can serve as a need-forecasting laboratory for marketing research. Moreover, since lead users often attempt to fill the need they experience, they can provide new product concept and design data as well.
In this paper I explore how lead users can be systematically identified, and how lead user perceptions and preferences can be incorporated into industrial and consumer marketing research analyses of emerging needs for new products, processes and services.
Keywords: marketing ; new products ; research and development ; innovation management 
  

9.3 Marshall Mn
Sampling for qualitative research
Abstract
The probability sampling techniques used for quantitative studies are rarely appropriate when conducting qualitative research. This article considers and explains the differences between the two approaches and describes three broad categories of naturalistic sampling: convenience, judgement and theoretical models. The principles are illustrated with practical examples from the author's own research
Key word  Qualitative sampling

9,4 Vandyke Tp
Measuring Information Systems Service Quality: Concerns on the Use of the SERVQUAL Questionnaire 
Abstract
A recent MIS Quarterly article rightfully points out that service is an important part of the role of the information systems (IS) department and that most IS assessment measures have a product orientation (Pitt et al. 1995). The article went on to suggest the use of an IS-context-modified version of the SERVQUAL instrument to assess the quality of the services supplied by an information services provider (Parasuraman et al. 1985, 1988, 1991).2 However, a number of problems with the SERVQUAL instrument have been discussed in the literature (e.g., Babakus and Boller 1992; Carman 1990; Cronin and Taylor 1992, 1994; Teas 1993). This article reviews that literature and discusses some of the implications for measuring service quality in the information systems context. Findings indicate that SERVQUAL suffers from a number of conceptual and empirical difficulties. Conceptual difficulties include the operationalization of perceived service quality as a difference or gap score, the ambiguity of the expectations construct, and the unsuitability of using a single measure of service quality across different industries. Empirical problems, which may be linked to the use of difference scores, include reduced reliability, poor convergent validity, and poor predictive validity. This suggests that (1) some alternative to difference scores is preferable and should be utilized; (2) if used, caution should be exercised in the interpretation of IS-SERVQUAL difference scores; and (3) further work is needed in the development of measures for assessing the quality of IS services.

9.5 Van Velsen L
Requirements engineering for e-Government services: A citizen-centric approach and case study
Abstract
Throughout the last decade, user involvement in e-Government service design has been virtually non-existent. Over time, e-Government experts began to realize that these services would benefit from a citizen-centric requirements engineering approach which has led to a demand for such an approach for this particular field. This article presents a citizen-centric approach towards user requirements engineering for e-Government services. It utilizes interviews and citizen walkthroughs of low-fidelity prototypes. A case study of a social support portal illustrates the approach and shows the need for repeated citizen inquiry, as the implementation of user requirements in low-fidelity prototype design is not always accepted by prospective end-users.
Discover the world's research

9.6 Karlsson F
Exploring user participation approaches in public e-service development

Abstract
It has been argued that user participation is important when public authorities develop e-services. At the same time there is limited research on the usefulness of existing user participation approaches in public e-service development. In this paper we, therefore, analyze how the three user participation approaches - participatory design, user-centered design, and user innovation - meet the strategic e-service goals of the EU and the US. In doing so, we identify three challenges that need to be considered when choosing among these approaches: 1) unclear user target segments can impede the fulfillment of usability and relevance goals, 2) the nature of participation can impede the fulfillment of democracy goals, and 3) lack of adequate skills can impede the fulfillment of efficiency goals.

Exploring user participation approaches in public e-service development (PDF Download Available). Available from: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/257244538_Exploring_user_participation_approaches_in_public_e-service_development [accessed Jul 19, 2017].

9.7 Hirschheim Ra
User Experience with and Assessment of Participative Systems Design 
Abstract
This article reports on the second half of a two-part study addressing user experiences with participative systems design. The concept of participative design is outlined and compared to more conventional approaches. User experiences are noted and the issue of evaluation is explored.
9.8 Glicken J
Getting stakeholder participation 'right': A discussion of participatory processes and possible pitfalls
Abstract
The planning step of an ecological risk assessment includes the largest role for public participation in the entire assessment, for it is here that the risk manager must ensure that the assessment will yield the information he needs to make a decision. This essay discusses some general characteristics of public participation in ecological risk assessments, including the ways in which different lifestyles may lead to the establishment of community specific management goals and hence of different endpoints; the type and nature of the input provided by the public to the risk assessment and the ways in which input from the public differs from input from the scientific community; and a discussion of definitions of stakeholders and participatory processes which emphasizes their contextual nature. The essay concludes with a review of some of the challenges facing a risk manager as he designs a participatory process. Six major areas are discussed, each incorporating suggestions that should reduce difficulties in implementation of such a process and increase the likelihood of acceptance of its outcome, and hence the overall quality of the risk assessment.

9.9 Jiang Jj
Measuring Information System Service Quality: SERVQUAL from the Other Side 
Abstract
There has been much debate as of late over the use of the SERVQUAL instrument to measure Information Systems service quality. Detractors argue that the difference score leads to unreliable measures and that the dimensionality and validity is erratic. Proponents argue for the diagnostic power of the gap between expectations and perceived delivery while demonstrating some empirical stability and reliability. To extend the discussion requires the examination of the instrument from the viewpoint of the information system professional. Importantly, a large variety of samples must view the instrument and measures in the same light for the instrument to have applicability. Likewise, analysis of differences between users and providers requires that both populations have similar structural views of the instrument. Empirical evidence collected from information system professionals demonstrated a structure similar to previously published studies with adequate reliability, convergent validity, and discriminant validity. The structure is the same as is found for a gap between users and IS professionals.
 9.10 Gulliksen J
Key principles for user-centred systems design 

Abstract
The concept of user-centred systems design (UCSD) has no agreed upon definition. Consequently, there is a great variety in the ways it is applied, which may lead to poor quality and poor usability in the resulting systems, as well as misconceptions about the effectiveness of UCSD. The purpose of this paper is to propose a definition of UCSD. We have identified 12 key principles for the adoption of a user-centred development process, principles that are based on existing theory, as well as research in and experiences from a large number of software development projects. The initial set of principles were applied and evaluated in a case study and modified accordingly. These principles can be used to communicate the nature of UCSD, evaluate a development process or develop systems development processes that support a user-centred approach. We also suggest activity lists and some tools for applying UCSD.
9.11 Kujala S

User involvement: A review of the benefits and challenges
Abstract
User involvement is a widely accepted principle in development of usable systems. However, it is a vague concept covering many approaches. This study first clarifies the nature of user involvement and its expected benefits, and secondly reviews three streams of research, to evaluate the benefits and problems of varied user involvement approaches in practice. The particular focus of this study is on the early activities in the development process. An analysis of the literature suggests that user involvement has generally positive effects, especially on user satisfaction, and some evidence exists to suggest that taking users as a primary information source is an effective means of requirements capture. However, the role of users must be carefully considered and more cost-efficient practices are needed for gathering users' implicit needs and requirements in real product development contexts.

9.12  Rust Rt
E-service: a new paradigm for business in the electronic environment
Firms must take full advantage of Net-based e-service opportunities, particularly in the transition of products to services, to garner long-term customer relationships and loyalty.
9.13 Muylle S
The conceptualization and empirical validation of Web site user satisfaction
Abstract
This article addresses the concern for effective web site design by means of the conceptualization and empirical validation of a web site user satisfaction construct. Based on IS success theory, hypermedia design theory, a qualitative exploratory pilot study, and a quantitative online critical incident technique, we introduce and define the construct of web site user satisfaction, explore its dimensionality, provide empirical validation of the construct and its underlying dimensionality, develop a standardized instrument with desirable psychometric properties for measuring WUS, and explore the measure's theoretical and practical application.

9.13 Dahan Nm
Corporate-NGO Collaboration: Co-creating New Business Models for Developing Markets
Abstract
Multinational enterprises (MNEs) face a range of challenges when entering developing countries, including the need to adapt their business models to local markets' cultural, economic, institutional and geographic features. Where they lack the tangible resources or intangible knowledge needed to address these challenges, MNEs may consider collaborating with non-profit nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) to help facilitate new modes of value creation. In such cross-sector partnerships, parties contribute complementary capabilities along each stage of the value chain to develop products or services that neither could produce alone, creating and delivering value in novel ways while minimizing costs and risks. Our conceptualization broadens the business model concept to incorporate cross-sector collaborations, arguing such partnerships can create and deliver both social and economic value, which can be mutually reinforcing. We highlight, in particular,the competencies and resources NGOs can bring to such partnerships, including market expertise, legitimacy with clients/customers, civil society players and governments, and access to local expertise and sourcing and distribution systems. Beyond contributing to particular value chain activities, NGOs and companies can offer missing capabilities to complete each other's business models, or even co-create new and innovative multiorganizational business models. We stress four strategic imperatives for the success of corporate-NGO developing market partnerships e innovative combinations of firm and NGO resources and skills; the importance of trust-building, and of fit between the two organizations' goals; and supporting and understanding the local business infrastructure and environment.
9.14 De Roiste M
Bringing in the users: The role for usability evaluation in eGovernment
Abstract
During the last decade, various types of eGovernment evaluations have been proposed. These evaluations have primarily focused on international benchmarking using supply side metrics. Demand for eGovernment has been largely ignored. Recently, this oversight has been recognised, but research in this area is still in its infancy. This paper proposes the use of an already established usability literature from computer science. Advantages of applying usability methods to eGovernment include recognising barriers to use, identifying future development priorities and using already existing methods to assess and compare online offerings. Importantly, the inclusion of and focus on real users also fits with the wider government ideals of greater public participation and strengthening democracy. To highlight the potential of such an approach, we present a case study. Usability methods, such as presented here in a user survey, can develop new insights by expressly targeting different user groups and through open-ended questions. The outcomes of this method are immediately useful for prioritising and undertaking future online development as well as comparing eGovernment provision.

