Cluster 4
4.13Bozeman B
-Government Success: How to Account for ICT, Administrative Rationalization, and Institutional Change
ABSTRACT
E-government is a complex undertaking, which encompasses technological, organizational, and institutional elements. Much research in the field has looked at ICT as a valid solution to make public administration more successful. This chapter offers a richer account of the role played by ICT in transforming public sector organizations, discussing the effects ICTs have in the rationalization of administrative procedures and public sector institutional transformations. The notion of techno-institutional assemblages is introduced to offer a new theoretical ground to frame the notion of success in e-government projects. It is argued here that successful e-government policies are the one that deliver the outcomes, which have led their initiation. Accordingly, the need for new indicators of success is identified.
4.2Genie N.L.Stowers
Becoming cyberactive: State and local governments on the World Wide Web
. Abstract
This article describes an empirical study of the current level and type of state and local public activity on the World Wide Web (WWW), providing some important baseline information on government activities in this area. Moving governments onto the WWW represents a paradigm shift in the use of technology, and some governments are moving faster and are becoming more innovative than others. Governments are clearly becoming “cyberactive” but are emphasizing information and services for business and other economic development activities rather than dissemination of policy information, encouraging policy discussions, or delivering public services.
Internet activity has been growing at a rapid pace during the past several years. Much of this activity has been in the private sector and in education but many U.S. state and local governments have also moved onto the WWW. The purpose of this empirical research is to provide baseline descriptive data on the current level and type of state and local public sector activity on the WWW. Like many other social science phenomena (e.g., public opinion, electoral behavior, and public policy itself), the WWW and Internet activity are dynamic phenomena, constantly changing and reorganizing. This study recognizes that and assumes that the empirical data gathered here are a snapshot in time of the entire public sector WWW phenomena.
4.3Ho Atk
Explaining the Adoption of E-Government Features

Abstract
Recently, many studies have emerged to document how the public sector uses the Internet to provide information and services, but very few have analyzed the factors that influence the adoption decision of e-government features. This study proposes a model of innovation adoption that integrates internal organizational factors and external peer influence and empirically tests how these factors influence Iowa county treasurers’ decisions to launch a departmental Web site and adopt other e-government features. Our results show that the factors influencing these two decisions are different but that both decisions are driven by the concerns about staff resistance. The authors conclude by discussing the implications of these findings for policy makers and directions for future research on e-government development.
4.4Hood C
A PUBLIC MANAGEMENT FOR ALL SEASONS?

                  Abstract
This article discusses: the doctrinal content of the group of ideas known as ‘new public management’(NPM); the intellectual provenance of those ideas; explanations for their apparent persuasiveness in the 1980 s; and criticisms which have been made of the new doctrines. Particular attention is paid to the claim that NPM offers an all-purpose key to better provision of public services. This article argues that NFM has been most commonly criticized in terms of a claimed contradiction between ‘equity’ and ‘efficiency’ values, but that any critique which is to survive NPM's claim to ‘infinite reprogrammability’ must be couched in terms of possible conflicts between administrative values. The conclusion is that the ESRC'S Management in Government’ research initiative has been more valuable in helping to identify rather than to definitively answer, the key conceptual questions raised by NPM.


Keith G. Provan
4.5 
Modes of Network Governance: Structure, Management, and Effectiveness
Abstract
This article examines the governance of organizational networks and the impact of governance on network effectiveness. Three basic models, or forms, of network governance are developed focusing on their distinct structural properties. Propositions are formulated examining conditions for the effectiveness of each form. The tensions inherent in each form are then discussed, followed by the role that management may play in addressing these tensions. Finally, the evolution of governance is explored.

4.6Lee J
The willingness of e-Government service adoption by business users: The role of offline service quality and trust in technology
Abstract
Prior e-Government research has paid much attention to e-Government service adoption from the supplier side – the government – while mostly overlooking the user side of e-Government, such as citizens and businesses. While there have been some initial efforts to study citizens in their adoption behavior, few have examined what influences the willingness of businesses in adopting e-Government services. This research attempts to fill this research gap by addressing the following research question: Why are some businesses more willing to adopt e-Government applications to perform transactions with the government than others? The authors argue that the willingness of a business to adopt e-Government depends on the perceived quality of government services through traditional brick and mortar service channels (offline service channels), and the level of trust businesses place in the internet technology itself. Competing hypotheses are developed with regard to the role of perceived quality of offline services on the business user's willingness to adopt e-Government services. Using data obtained from a local district government in Seoul, Korea, the analysis revealed that the willingness to adopt e-Government increased when business users perceived high quality service provision in offline service channels.

 However, trust in the internet technology itself did not have any significant impact on their willingness. The theoretical and practical implications of the study finding are discussed.
4.7M. Jae Moon
Donald F. Norris

Does managerial orientation matter? The adoption of reinventing government and e-government at the municipal level

Abstract
Abstract. This paper explores the effect of managerial innovativeness in municipal government on the adoption of e-government, and it examines the association between the adoption of e-government and its outcome. The authors posit an exploratory model: The first part of the model shows how adoption of municipal e-government is determined by managerial innovativeness orientation, government capacity and institutional characteristics such as city size and government type. The second part suggests how e-government outcomes are associated with the adoption of e-government, government capacity and institutional characteristics. Analysing two different survey data sets of American municipal reinvention and e-government, this study finds that managerial innovativeness orientation and city size are the most compelling determinants of municipal e-government adoption. Different levels of e-government adoption may yield different outcomes.

Information System Success: Individual and Organizational Determinants
4.8Abstract :Sabherwal R
Despite considerable empirical research, results on the relationships among constructs related to information system (IS) success, as well as the determinants of IS success, are often inconsistent. A comprehensive understanding of IS success thus remains elusive. In an attempt to address this situation, which may partly be due to the exclusion of potentially important constructs from prior parsimonious models of IS success, we present and test a comprehensive theoretical model. This model explains interrelationships among four constructs representing the success of a specific IS (user satisfaction, system use, perceived usefulness, and system quality), and the relationships of these IS success constructs with four user-related constructs (user experience with ISs, user training in ISs, user attitude toward ISs, and user participation in the development of the specific IS) and two constructs representing the context (top-management support for ISs and facilitating conditions for ISs). To test the model, we first used meta-analysis to compute a correlation matrix for the constructs in the model based on 612 findings from 121 studies published between 1980 and 2004, and then used this correlation matrix as input for a LISREL analysis of the model. Overall, we found excellent support for the theoretical model. The results underline the importance of user-related and contextual attributes in IS success and raise questions about some commonly believed relationships.

4.9The Performance Effects of Complementarities Between Information Systems, Marketing, Manufacturing, and Supply Chain Processes
Abstract :Bharadwaj s
Manufacturing firms are increasingly using advanced enterprise-level information systems to coordinate and synchronize externally oriented functions such as marketing and supply chain and internally oriented activities such as manufacturing. In this paper, we present a model of manufacturing performance that simultaneously considers the effects of a firm's integrated IS capability in conjunction with interfunctional and interorganizational coordination mechanisms. Consistent with the complementarity perspective, we view this specific form of IS capability as enhancing manufacturing's coordination with marketing and supply chain functions to drive manufacturing performance. Additionally, the theoretical model presented here introduces manufacturing-IS coordination, a form of coordination not considered in past research, as a key antecedent to integrated IS capability. The research thus provides a comprehensive framework for examining manufacturing performance in contexts that have been transformed by the use of advanced information systems. The theoretical model is tested using primary data collected from manufacturing firms and matched with objective manufacturing performance data from secondary sources. Results show that a firm's integrated IS capability, as well as the complementary effects of IS capability with manufacturing, marketing, and supply chain processes, are significant predictors of manufacturing performance. These findings are robust to concerns of endogeneity, unobserved heterogeneity, and alternative model specification.


4.10The World’s Technological Capacity to Store, Communicate, and Compute Information
Abstract:Hilbert M
We estimated the world’s technological capacity to store, communicate, and compute information, tracking 60 analog and digital technologies during the period from 1986 to 2007. In 2007, humankind was able to store 2.9 × 1020 optimally compressed bytes, communicate almost 2 × 1021 bytes, and carry out 6.4 × 1018 instructions per second on general-purpose computers. General-purpose computing capacity grew at an annual rate of 58%. The world’s capacity for bidirectional telecommunication grew at 28% per year, closely followed by the increase in globally stored information (23%). Humankind’s capacity for unidirectional information diffusion through broadcasting channels has experienced comparatively modest annual growth (6%). Telecommunication has been dominated by digital technologies since 1990 (99.9% in digital format in 2007), and the majority of our technological memory has been in digital format since the early 2000s (94% digital in 2007).


Distinguishing Between E-Services and Communication Technologies

4.11Abstract:LiMh
Local governments in the United States have adopted and implemented e-government as a means of delivering services to the public and encouraging citizen participation. We use data from a national random survey of 902 government managers from 500 local governments in the United States to examine factors that explain the adoption of two types of e-government technologies: e-services, which enable electronic delivery of services, and communication technologies, which enable one- and two-way communication with citizens. We find that managerial perceptions of the organization, such as personnel constraints and organizational centralization, are negatively related to the adoption of e-services while citizen demands are positively associated with the adoption of e-services. In comparison, we find that public managers perceiving higher levels of external influences and citizen demands report increased adoption of communication technologies. The results contribute to the e-government literature by indicating the importance of distinguishing between communication technologies and e-services and the factors that explain the adoption of these technologies.
	
4.12Mandates to Coordinate: The Case of the Southern Nevada Public Lands Management Act
Abstract:otooleLj
Policymakers are increasingly mandating intergovernmental coordination. As a result, new questions have arisen about how bureaucrats interpret and respond to these directives. Drawing on the perspectives of top-down implementation and institutional theory, this article suggests that mandates to coordinate will result in structural efforts such as hierarchy, centralization, and formalization to signal coordination and demonstrate compliance with the mandate. However, such efforts can be ineffective for achieving coordination. These claims are explored through a case study of the implementation of the Southern Nevada Public Lands Management Act of 1998, which called on federal land management agencies to coordinate with units of local government in southern Nevada to develop a regional system of parks, trails, and natural areas. The discussion draws on interviews with 14 participants to provide context and explanation for the actions of the implementing agents, including how the mandate affected the structures, processes, and procedures that were put in place to realize the goal of coordination.
4.13Determinants of Financial Performance: A Meta-Analysis
Abstract:Capon N
A meta-analysis of results from 320 published studies relates environmental, strategic and organizational factors to financial performance. Some factors (e.g., concentration and growth) have been studied widely and have a relatively consistent positive impact on performance. Other widely-studied factors (e.g., size) have few consistent effects. Many factors (particularly organizational variables) are understudied. We suggest implications for research and management practice.
Using old stuff in new ways: Innovation as a case of evolutionary tinkering

4.14Abstract :Sanger Mb
We analyze more than 25 successful innovations and innovators and draw three principle lessons. First, innovation does not spring from systematic policy analysis nor is it generally a revolutionary breakthrough. Innovation more often depends upon evolutionary tinkering with existing practices. It results, therefore, from a process of trial and error and experimential learning in the field. Its novelty arises from the assemblage of familiar stuff in new ways. Second, analysis is more useful in shaping effective policy by evaluating it as it develops rather than in choosing between competing policies ahead of time. Third, innovative public managers are entrepreneurial; they take risks with this old stuff, with an opportunistic bias toward action and a conscious underestimating of the bureaucratic and political obstacles their innovations face. We conclude with prescriptions for how public managers ought to be trained and how they ought to behave.

4.15Bureaucracy and innovation revisited: Effects of contingency factors, industrial sectors, and innovation characteristics
Abstract:Damanpor F
While the negative effect of bureaucracy on innovation is taken as a given by organization researchers, the existing models used to depict the relationship between bureaucracy and innovation are usually very simple. This study intends to develop and test theories that explain the variation in the bureaucracy-innovation relationship in greater detail. The study considers two major indicators of bureaucratic control—centralization and formalization. Propositions are advanced on the effects of 14 contingency variables on the relationship between centralization and innovation and formalization and innovation. The propositions are then tested against the data from published studies in organizational innovation during the last three decades using a multivariate meta-analytic procedure. Results suggest avenues for further theory development and research, which we discuss.
4.16Modes of Theorizing in Strategic Human Resource Management: Tests of Universalistic, Contingency, and Configurational Performance Predictions
Abstract:Delery Je
The field of strategic human resource management (SHRM) has been criticized for lacking a solid theoretical foundation. This article documents that, contrary to this criticism, the SHRM literature draws on three dominant modes of theorizing: universalistic, contingency, and configurational perspectives. Seven key strategic human resource practices are identified and used to develop theoretical arguments consistent with each perspective. The results demonstrate that each perspective can be used to structure theoretical arguments that explain significant levels of variation in financial performance.
4.17Web usage statistics: Measurement issues and analytical techniques
Abstract:Bertotjc
The number of federal agencies creating and maintaining electronic networked resources continues to increase. One networked resource federal agencies are increasingly using is the World Wide Web (Web). As government use of the Web rises, so too does the need for assessing the extent and nature of public use of agency Web sites. One means of Web use evaluation is through the analysis of Web server-generated log files. This article presents various log file analysis techniques and issues related to the interpretation of log file data.

4.18Building state information highways: lessons for public and private sector leaders

Abstract: Jonas Dk
In America’s state houses small yet powerful collections of policy leaders, in the public and private sector, are guiding the initial conception and early implementation of advanced communication networks. This article investigates how the beliefs of leading actors collide to produce two distinctive state networks. Rather than focus exclusively on the simple dichotomous “yes” or “no” decision regarding the adoption or nonadoption of an advanced telecommunications system, like a statewide information highway, this article focuses on the critical role of debate imbedded within that decision. Analysis and presentation of interviews and extensive literature reviews of the development of information highways, in North Carolina and Iowa, provide the setting for the generation of hypotheses suggesting the future trajectory of technology policymaking. While praised for their bold, visionary leadership and innovative system designs, the accounts of network development in these two American states also provide a cautionary tale for other subnational governments and for private sector telecommunications firms interested in the business of building public sector information highways.
4.19The resource-based view and marketing: The role of market-based assets in gaining competitive advantage

Abstract:SrivastavaRk
This article posits a framework that shows how market-based assets and capabilities are leveraged via market-facing or core business processes to deliver superior customer value and competitive advantages. These value elements and competitive advantages can be leveraged to result in superior corporate performance and shareholder value and reinvested to nurture market-based assets and capabilities in the future. The article also illustrates how resource-based view (RBV) and marketing considerations in the context of generating and sustaining customer value can refine and extend each other’s traditional frames of analysis. Finally, the article posits a set of research directions designed to enable scholars to further advance the integration of RBV and marketing from both theory-driven practice management as well as a problem-driven theory development perspectives.

4.20Exploring the Role of Information Technology in Organizational Downsizing: A Tale of Two American Cities



Abstract:Pinsonneault A
This study explores the role information technology (IT) plays in organizational downsizing by studying two medium-sized American cities over a period of 10 years (1985-1995). Data were collected through 73 interviews, a questionnaire, and numerous documents. Four main findings emerged from the case studies. First, IT was found to facilitate organizational downsizing, but not to cause it. New City invested heavily in state-of-the-art IT over the years and more successfully downsized the organization than Old City, which lagged behind in IT investment and made no serious attempts to use IT as a tool to support strategic actions. Second, adverse environmental conditions triggered downsizing in both cities and determined the change strategies that managers used. When environmental pressures were mild (1985-1990), managers favored a convergent change strategy that resulted in limited downsizing efforts and small personnel reductions. In contrast, when environmental pressures were strong (1990-1995), managers of both cities engaged in strategic reorientation and in downsizing efforts that led to larger personnel reductions. Third, the role IT played in organizational downsizing varied according to the change strategy. IT was used to facilitate work redesign in a convergent change strategy and to facilitate more significant structural and work redesign in strategic reorientation. Fourth, more integrated and better use of IT allowed managers of New City to downsize more rationally and efficiently. It facilitated the transfer of personnel within departments, from middle management to the operations level, and across departments, from internally oriented to customer-oriented personnel. In doing so, managers of New City minimized operating costs while maintaining the same level of services. In contrast, IT in Old City did not facilitate such an agenda and managers downsized more superficially across the board, in all departments. Differences in IT consequences in the two cities are explained using the theory of slack resources in organizations
4.21Digital Citizenship
Parameters of the Digital Divide
Abstract:Shelly M
This study presents results from a 2002 Midwest urban random sample survey (N = 167 adults). It is proposed that attitudes toward technology have a direct impact on digital citizenry and are colored by racial and educational differences. A path model showed several key results. Desire for computer skills increased among respondents with lower levels of educational attainment. Respondents with higher levels of education were more likely to use computers at home andwork. Non-Whites were more likely than Whites to agree that technological information is key to citizen empowerment and that computers should be accessible to all citizens, as well as reporting increased interest in learning computer skills. Interest in developing computer skillswas positively associated with digital citizenship. Viewing technology as a source of informational powerwas positively related to support for digital government and to support for computer access equity.


4.22Sun PL
An implementation framework for E-Government 2.0


Highlights
•In transitioning to E-Government 2.0, agencies often encounter challenges.
•Making progress with service innovation needs an implementation framework to assist.
•A novel implementation framework for E-Government 2.0 is proposed.
•Korea, Antigua and Barbuda, and Ecuador are used as cases to validate this framework.
Abstract
The E-Government standard describes how governments work, share information and deliver services to external and internal stakeholders. It harnesses information and communication technologies (ICTs) to transform relationships with citizens and businesses and between the branches of government. The benefits may include reduced corruption, increased transparency, greater convenience, higher revenues, and lower costs. The current E-Government 2.0 describes user-oriented portal services that are integrated into and provided through one portal site using Web 2.0 technologies, such as RSS, blogs, social networks, etc., and that are accessible from various channels. However, building E-Government 2.0 is difficult because the transition from E-Government to E-Government 2.0 should be an organizational integration agenda, not only a technology one. Agencies may encounter many unpredictable design challenges and tensions that must be managed. Governments are now beginning to focus on the larger and more holistic task of service innovation in order to provide more productive and better services. One of the key observations about making progress with service innovation is that agencies need a framework to help them move forward. Our objective in this study is to propose a novel implementation framework for E-Government 2.0. This framework integrates the processes, resources, back offices, and front offices of online systems to carry out the stakeholder-oriented participatory E-Government 2.0. Finally, we use Korea, Antigua and Barbuda, and Ecuador as cases to validate it.
Keywords 
Implementation framework
E-Government 2.0
Web 2.0

4.23Buhrmester M

Amazon's Mechanical Turk

Abstract
Amazon’s Mechanical Turk (MTurk) is a relatively new website that contains the major elements required to conduct research: an integrated participant compensation system; a large participant pool; and a streamlined process of study design, participant recruitment, and data collection. In this article, we describe and evaluate the potential contributions of MTurk to psychology and other social sciences. Findings indicate that (a) MTurk participants are slightly more demographically diverse than are standard Internet samples and are significantly more diverse than typical American college samples; (b) participation is affected by compensation rate and task length, but participants can still be recruited rapidly and inexpensively; (c) realistic compensation rates do not affect data quality; and (d) the data obtained are at least as reliable as those obtained via traditional methods. Overall, MTurk can be used to obtain high-quality data inexpensively and rapidly


4.24Dehart-davis L
Red Tape and Public Employees: Does Perceived Rule Dysfunction Alienate Managers?


Abstract
This study explores the relationship between organizational red tape and work alienation. While bureaucratic controls have long been considered sources of worker detachment, the relationship between red tape and managerial alienation has not been explicitly tested. When managers encounter rules, regulations, or procedures that seem pointless yet burdensome, these encounters may simultaneously trigger the key psychological ingredients of alienation—powerlessness and meaninglessness. These in turn are expected to reduce organizational commitment, job involvement, and job satisfaction, alienation indicators used in this study. To test these expectations, the study uses data from the National Administrative Studies Project (NASP-II). NASP-II surveyed managers in state health and human service agencies, producing a response rate of approximately 53 percent. Statistical analyses indicate that perceived personnel red tape is a consistently negative and statistically significant influence in all alienation models. Perceived organizational red tape is statistically significant and negative in all but the job involvement model. Other bureaucratic control mechanisms included in the models also appear to be sources of alienation, including centralization and technology routineness. However, formalization appears to be a mitigating, not exacerbating, influence on alienation. Considered together, these results suggest that red tape and other forms of bureaucratic control have adverse effects on the psychological attachment felt by public managers to their workplace.


DP  Moynihan

4.25Normative and Instrumental Perspectives on Public Participation

Abstract
A normative literature in political science and public administration calls for enhanced citizen participation in public decisions. However, this approach overlooks the environment that shapes administrative behavior, an oversight likely to hamper reform efforts targeted at achieving the normative goals of participation. The administrative perspective is important because public managers shape participation forums and determine whether public input has an impact on decisions. In organizing participation, administrators are likely to be guided by an instrumental view of relative costs and benefits. Washington, D.C.’s Citizen Summit illustrates the primacy of the instrumental perspective but demonstrates conditions of compatibility with normative goals. In this case, public managers perceived administrative costs to be low relative to instrumental benefits, such as the quality of public input and a need to increase governmental legitimacy. They also applied innovative participation technologies to reduce administrative costs and raise instrumental benefits, reinvigorating the frequently criticized public hearing.


4.26GersickCjg
Revolutionary Change Theories: A Multilevel Exploration of the Punctuated Equilibrium Paradigm


Abstract
Research on how organizational systems develop and change is shaped, at every level of analysis, by traditional assumptions about how change works. New theories in several fields are challenging some of the most pervasive of these assumptions, by conceptualizing change as a punctuated equilibrium: an alternation between long periods when stable infrastructures permit only incremental adaptations, and brief periods of revolutionary upheaval. This article compares models from six domains-adult, group, and organizational development, history of science, biological evolution, and physical science-to explicate the punctuated equilibrium paradigm and show its broad applicability for organizational studies. Models are juxtaposed to generate new research questions about revolutionary change in organizational settings: how it is triggered, how systems function during such periods, and how it concludes. The article closes with implications for research and theory.

4.27Grigirescu A
International Organizations and Government Transparency: Linking the International and Domestic Realms

Abstract
In recent years there has been an increased interest in political science in the concept of “transparency.” The literature has emphasized the effects that government transparency can have, especially on democratic consolidation. Yet there has been very little research focusing on the causes of transparency. This study discusses some of the possible factors affecting government transparency and offers several aggregate tests of their relevance. It emphasizes the mechanisms through which governments adopt institutions supporting transparency in order to signal to their societies and to external actors that the information they offer is indeed credible. It argues that such signals are more likely to be offered as the public receives increasing amounts of alternative information from international organizations. The discussion thus links processes taking place at the international level with those in the domestic realm.



Halachemi  A
Transparency, E-Government, and Accountability

Abstract
Greater use of information and communications technology and e-government can increase governmental transparency. This, in turn, may invite citizen participation, foster e-governance, and facilitate e-democracy. However, beyond a certain point, more government openness may be dysfunctional if it reduces operational capacity. This article claims that in the real world, where the proverbial question is "Why can't government be like business?," many public managers are challenged by the need to perform a balancing act between the pursuit of greater openness and private-sector efficiency. The article concludes that there is a need to develop theories, models, and trainings to assist managers in addressing this balancing challenge.
Keywords: accountability, case studies, e-government, governance, transparency


J LEE

Determinants of Government Bureaucrats' New PMIS Adoption


Abstract
This study examines factors that influence adoption of new public management information systems (PMIS) by bureaucrats in the Korean government. The author proposes a theory that public bureaucrats' adoption of new PMIS depends on their power within the hierarchical structure, their ability to use existing computer applications, their administrative role, and their attitude toward the effect of information and telecommunication technologies (IT) on managerial values and on the interaction between organizational power and IT capability. The author uses 1998 survey data on electronic approval systems (EAS) of central government agencies and local governments in Korea and finds that at the early stage, public bureaucrats with less power adopted new EAS. However, public bureaucrats with more power adopted new EAS when they had greater IT capability. Public bureaucrats' organizational power influences their adoption of EAS but depends on their IT capability. Also, in central agencies, program professionals adopt EAS earlier, and in local government, IT staff do.


M  Aiken
The Organic Organization and Innovation 


Abstract
This study explores several variables that characterize organic organization to test whether they are associated with varying rates of innovation. The number of occupational specialities, the intensity of scheduled and unscheduled communication and, to a lesser extent, the decentralization of decision-making, are related to innovation. A review of the literature suggests other factors that are also associated with innovation: slack resources, joint programs, size, and history of innovation. With the exception of size, most of these factors are also found to be highly correlated with innovation. Our conclusion is that perhaps the technological gap is an organizational one and that, therefore, the solution to `the American challenge' is an organic form of organization.


S Gounaris
Assessing service quality on the Web: evidence from business‐to‐consumer portals
ABSTRACT

The article explores the quality dimensions that the visitors of national and foreign business‐to‐consumer portals use to assess the performance of their service offering. Based on the SERVQUAL model and previous research on Web site evaluation and quality, the paper identified three quality dimensions that proved to be stable across sites’ nationality and user profiles. Several implications are drawn from these results for both Web site marketers and future academic research.

KEYWORDS

Portals, Worldwide web, Marketing, Customer services quality, Electronic commerce, Greece

Seidler j
On Using Informants: A Technique for Collecting Quantitative Data and Controlling Measurement Error in Organization Analysis

Abstract
Reviewing recent developments in the study of organizations and in the use of informants, this paper notes the compatibility of both and the need for further refinements. As an example, it presents methods used in a study of authority conflict in 136 Catholic dioceses in America. These include principles for choosing a small number of informants per unit and two sets of auxiliary methodological propositions. The first, an "instrumental" theory, was part of a strategy to control measurement error. It guided the data collection process, and the creation of "error" control variables. The second set of propositions, devised for evaluating measurement error, presented expected mathematical properties of such error variables. These properties were expected to hold under the condition that the data were sound enough for substantive analysis. For these data, hypotheses were basically supported.




Smith AC

Administrative innovation in municipal government

Abstract
The purpose of this study is to identify those factors which account for administrative innovation in municipal government bureaucracies. Two dimensions of administrative innovation are examined: management and technology. Management innovation refers to procedures and methods by which policies are implemented. Technology innovation refers to the adoption of new physical products or processes. Multiple indicators of specific innovative practices are used to create a management scale and a technology scale and the two scales are then combined to create a composite administration innovation scale. In order to explain the dimensions of innovation the study employs a model comprised of three sets of independent variables: community variables, political system variables, and bureaucratic variables. Multiple regression analysis is used to examine the relationship between each set of independent variables and the dipensions of innovation. A second stage of analysis combines the three sets of explanatory variables into a single equation for each type of innovation. The results indicate that the three sets of variables are of significant power in explaining innovation, although as one moves from community variables to political variables to bureaucratic variables there is a decline in the amount of variation explained. Some variables are more important for certain types of innovation than for others, but population size, community growth rate, and electoral competition cut across the various types of innovation.


Thompson Va
Effects of mode of organization and feedback level on creative task groups.
Abstract
Tested the effects of mode of organization (specialization vs. Project teams) and feedback level (individual vs. Group) on the performance and satisfaction of peer-evaluated, creative task groups. 24 groups of 3 undergraduates each worked on a word-construction task. Performance on each trial of the task was measured by (a) score on the final word constructed (word score), (b) time to achieve a task solution, and (c) rated creativity of the word constructed. An index of task satisfaction was obtained from questionnaire items. Results show that creative task groups organized into project teams had shorter times and expressed higher satisfaction with the task than did groups organized by specialization. Groups receiving individual-level feedback had higher mean word scores than did groups receiving group-level feedback. (18 ref.) (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2016 APA, all rights reserved)



